FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 
February 24, 2026 
America’s Credit Unions Launches Nationwide Campaign Urging Congress to Reject Durbin-Marshall Credit Card Mandates 
Washington, D.C. – As more than 6,000 credit union advocates prepare to gather in Washington, D.C. for America’s Credit Unions’ Governmental Affairs Conference 2026, America’s Credit Unions today announced the launch of a national advertising campaign urging Congress to reject the Durbin-Marshall Credit Card Competition Act. 
“The Durbin-Marshall credit card mandates are a solution in search of a problem that will ultimately make credit less accessible and everyday purchases less secure for middle class families,” said Scott Simpson, President and CEO of America’s Credit Unions. “Credit unions are hearing directly from their consumer members who are concerned about fraud, rising costs, and maintaining access to safe and affordable credit. This campaign ensures that consumers and policymakers alike understand what is at stake.” 
The campaign launch follows weeks of credit union grasstops and communications efforts to highlight the unintended consequences of credit card mandates following President Trump’s support for the legislation. The ad buy includes digital video, online radio, and targeted newsletter placements running nationwide, directing consumers to contact lawmakers through an advocacy action alert opposing the proposed credit card mandates. 
Digital ads will run in the districts of more than 70 lawmakers in both the House and Senate, with additional placements in the Washington, D.C. market during the week of GAC.  
The advertising effort also includes placements in policy-focused newsletters including The Hill Morning Report and POLITICO Morning Money during the week of the conference. 
Thousands of credit union leaders attending GAC will meet with lawmakers March 2-5 to share how proposed routing mandates could reduce access to credit, weaken fraud protections, and increase costs for consumers. 
America’s Credit Unions is encouraging consumers to learn more and contact their elected officials by visiting the organization’s advocacy action center. 
### 