Capital One Q1 2024 Earnings Call (April 25, 2024)
--- PREPARED REMARKS ---

Rich Fairbank -- Chief Executive Officer

Of course, the biggest news in the quarter was our announcement that we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Discover.

We've submitted our application for regulatory approval, and we're fully mobilized to plan and deliver a successful integration. The combination of Capital One and Discover creates game-changing strategic opportunities. The Discover payment network positions Capital One as a more diversified, vertically integrated global payments platform, and adding Capital One's debit spending and a growing portion of Credit Card purchase volume to the Discover network will add significant scale, increasing the network's value to merchants, small businesses, and consumers and driving enhanced network growth. In the Credit Card business, we're bringing together two proven franchises with complementary strategy and a shared focus on the customer.

And we can accelerate the growth of our national digital-first consumer banking business by adding Discover's consumer deposit franchise and the vertical integration benefits of the debit network. We will be able to leverage and scale the benefits of our 11 years transformation across every business and the network, which will serve as the catalyst for innovation and enhanced capabilities in risk management and compliance, underwriting, marketing, and customer service. Pulling way up, the acquisition of Discover is a singular opportunity. It will create a Consumer Banking and global payments platform with unique capability, modern technology, powerful brands, and a franchise of more than 100 million customers. It delivers compelling financial results, and it offers the potential to create significant value for merchants and customers and an unparalleled strategic and economic upside over the long term.

--- Q&A ---

Mihir Bhatia -- Bank of America Merrill Lynch -- Analyst

Rich, if I could switch for a second to the Discover acquisition? There's been a lot of talk around deal approval, particularly focusing around potential antitrust issues within the Card business. And I was wondering if you could share your thoughts and perspective on that issue if you've heard anything from regulators but also just to hear how you are thinking about that issue.

Rich Fairbank -- Chief Executive Officer

So, we have filed our merger applications with both the Fed and the OCC, and we are engaged with the DOJ as they play a key role in advising the Fed and the OCC on competition questions. We believe our applications make a very compelling case for approval. We believe strongly that this merger will increase competition among banks and credit card issuers and payment networks, and provide significant benefits for consumers, merchants, and the communities that we serve.

On the network side, we're not currently in that business. If the deal is approved, we will still have four networks just like we do today but we will be adding new customers and scale to the smallest by far of the four networks and be able to leverage our technology, talent, and marketing capabilities to greatly enhance Discover's competitive viability. Their market share was 6% a decade ago and sits at just 4% today. The significant investments that we are planning will provide substantial benefits for consumers and merchants.

On the Credit Card side, the regulators have found every time they've studied it that the credit card market is highly competitive and not at all concentrated. In fact, it's less concentrated today than it was 10 years ago. Consumers can choose from over 4,000 issuers, all able to offer products with similar capabilities. We have to compete every day for every single transaction because our customers can simply choose at any moment to use another card.

We also believe that the facts will show that there are no barriers to entry in the credit card business. New and incumbent fintechs backed by significant VC funding are able to leverage the infrastructure of credit card as a service players like Marqeta to achieve instant scale and high growth. Consumers can also choose to use another form of payment entirely -- cash, debit, or buy now pay later, which has exploded onto the marketplace.

Pulling way up, we believe the facts will show that this transaction is both pro-competitive and pro-consumer, bringing our best-in-class products and services to a broader set of consumers and small businesses and greatly enhancing opportunities and benefits for merchants.

John Pancari -- Evercore ISI -- Analyst

Any change to your expectation on the CET1 front for a pro forma CET1 ratio of about just shy of 14%? And any change to your thoughts around buyback activity in the near term?

Andrew Young -- Chief Financial Officer

With respect to the deal, as we talked about when we announced it, we used a blend of consensus estimates of where we would have the CET1 at the time of close. There are a number of variables that are going to move between now and legal day one, not just the stand-alone performance of each of our companies but balance sheet marks, some of which are driven by credit and stock price. We remain just as excited today about the financial and strategic benefits of the transaction as we did when we announced the deal. With respect to our stand-alone repurchases, the agreement with Discover does not prohibit us from buying shares.