No ☐

No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See
the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check One):
Accelerated filer
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act)
Yes ☐
No ☒
As of October 27, 2025, there were 891,258,183 shares outstanding of the registrant’s Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share; and 6,737,665 shares outstanding of the

Item 1.

Consolidated financial statements (unaudited)

Item 2.

42

Item 3.

43

Item 4.

Item 1.

Legal proceedings

Item 1A.

Risk factors

Item 2.

Item 5.

Other information

Item 6.

Exhibits

47

-

In this Report on Form 10-Q (“Report”), references to the “Company,” “Mastercard,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to the business conducted by Mastercard Incorporated and its
consolidated subsidiaries, including our operating subsidiary, Mastercard International Incorporated, and to the Mastercard brand.

This Report contains forward-looking statements pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than
statements of historical facts may be forward-looking statements. When used in this Report, the words “believe”, “expect”, “could”, “may”, “would”, “will”, “trend” and similar
words are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to the Company’s
Many factors and uncertainties relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control, influence
whether any forward-looking statements can or will be achieved. Any one of those factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in
writing in any forward-looking statements made by Mastercard or on its behalf, including, but not limited to, the following factors:
• regulation related to the payments industry (including regulatory, legislative and litigation activity with respect to interchange rates and surcharging)
• regulation that directly or indirectly applies to us based on our participation in the global payments industry (including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of
terrorism, economic sanctions and anti-corruption, account-based payments systems, and issuer and acquirer practices regulation)
• the impact of changes in tax laws, as well as regulations and interpretations of such laws or challenges to our tax positions
• the challenges relating to operating a real-time account-based payments system and to working with new customers and end users
• issues related to our relationships with our stakeholders (including loss of substantial business from significant customers, competitor relationships with our customers,
consolidation amongst our customers, merchants’ continued focus on acceptance costs and unique risks from our work with governments)
• the impact of global economic, political, financial and societal events and conditions, including adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls
• reputational impact, including impact related to brand perception and lack of visibility of our brands in products and services
• exposure to loss or illiquidity due to our role as guarantor as well as other contractual obligations and discretionary actions we may take
Please see a complete discussion of these risk factors in Part I, Item 1A - Risk Factors of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. We
caution you that the important factors referenced above may not contain all of the factors that are important to you. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date
of this Report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update our forward-looking statements.

Item 2. Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations

Consolidated Statements of Operations — Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 and 2024

Page

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income — Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 and 2024

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity — Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 and 2024

(159)
3,866
3,263 $
3.54 $
3.53 $

239
(563)
13,702
12.02 $
908
12.00 $

231
(69)
governments, digital partners, businesses and other organizations worldwide by enabling electronic payments and making those payment transactions secure, simple, smart
and accessible.

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Mastercard and its majority-owned and controlled entities, including any variable interest entities (“VIEs”) for
which the Company is the primary beneficiary. Investments in VIEs for which the Company is not considered the primary beneficiary are not consolidated and are accounted
for as marketable, equity method or measurement alternative method investments and recorded in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. At September 30, 2025
and December 31, 2024, there were no significant VIEs that required consolidation and the investments were not material to the consolidated financial statements. The
Company consolidates acquisitions as of the date the Company has obtained a controlling financial interest. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in
consolidation. The Company follows accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
The balance sheet as of December 31, 2024 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2024. The consolidated financial statements
for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 and as of September 30, 2025 are unaudited, and in the opinion of management, include all normal
recurring adjustments that are necessary to present fairly the results for interim periods. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025
are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requirements for
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Reference should be made to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 (“2024 Form 10-K”) for
903

4.35

3.54

908

12.02

928

10.27

For the periods presented, the calculation of diluted EPS excluded a minimal amount of anti-dilutive share-based payment awards.

The Company’s investments on the consolidated balance sheets include both available-for-sale and held-to-maturity debt securities (see Investments section below). The
Company’s strategic investments in equity securities of publicly traded and privately held companies are classified within other assets on the consolidated balance sheets (see

Investments

Total investments

335

292
38

Held-to-maturity securities represent investments in time deposits that mature within one year. The cost of these securities approximates fair value.

Investment income on the consolidated statements of operations primarily consists of interest income generated from cash, cash equivalents, held-to maturity and availablefor-sale investment securities, as well as realized gains and losses on the Company’s investment securities. The realized gains and losses from the sales of available-for-sale
securities for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were not material.
The major classes of the Company’s available-for-sale investment securities and their respective amortized cost basis and fair values were as follows:
Gain
Loss
denominated in the national currency of the issuing country. Corporate and asset-backed securities held at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024 primarily carried a
credit rating of A- or better. Corporate securities are comprised of commercial paper and corporate bonds. The gross unrealized gains and losses on the available-for-sale
securities are primarily driven by changes in interest rates and are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss).
The maturity distribution based on the contractual terms of the Company’s available-for-sale investment securities at September 30, 2025 was as follows:
Amortized Cost

Fair Value

110
205

110

Equity Investments
Included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets are equity investments with readily determinable fair values (“Marketable securities”) and equity investments
without readily determinable fair values (“Nonmarketable securities”). Marketable securities are equity interests in publicly traded companies and are measured using
unadjusted quoted prices in their respective active markets. Nonmarketable securities that do not qualify for equity method accounting are measured at cost, less any
impairment and adjusted for changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or similar investments of the same issuer (“Measurement
alternative”).

The following table is a summary of the activity related to the Company’s equity investments:
31, 2024

Purchases

105

Deferred compensation liabilities

The Company’s U.S. government securities are classified within Level 1 of the Valuation Hierarchy as the fair values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets in active markets.
The fair value of the Company’s available-for-sale non-U.S. government and agency securities, corporate securities and asset-backed securities are based on observable inputs such as quoted
prices, benchmark yields and issuer spreads for similar assets in active markets and are therefore included in Level 2 of the Valuation Hierarchy.

The Company’s foreign exchange and interest rate derivative asset and liability contracts measured at fair value are based on observable inputs such as broker quotes for similar derivative

The Company’s Marketable securities are publicly held and fair values are based on unadjusted quoted prices in their respective active markets.

The Company has a nonqualified deferred compensation plan under which assets are invested primarily in mutual funds held in a rabbi trust or are held as cash equivalents, all of which are
restricted for payments to participants of the plan. The Company has elected to use the fair value option for these assets, which are measured using quoted prices of identical instruments in
active markets. These are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents on the consolidated balance sheets.

The Company has a nonqualified deferred compensation plan under which liabilities are measured at fair value based on the quoted prices of identical instruments to the investment vehicles
selected by the participants. These are included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.

Nonrecurring Measurements
Nonmarketable Securities
The Company’s Nonmarketable securities are recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in periods after initial recognition under the equity method or measurement
alternative method. Nonmarketable securities are classified within Level 3 of the Valuation Hierarchy due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity
and unobservable inputs used to measure fair value that require management’s judgment. The Company uses discounted cash flows and market assumptions to estimate the
fair value of its Nonmarketable securities when certain events or circumstances indicate that impairment may exist. Observable price changes in orderly transactions for
identical or similar investments of the same issuer could also result in fair value adjustments. See Note 5 (Investments) for further details.

Debt
Debt instruments are carried on the consolidated balance sheets at amortized cost. The Company estimates the fair value of its debt based on either market quotes or
observable market data. Debt is classified as Level 2 of the Valuation Hierarchy as it is generally not traded in active markets. At September 30, 2025, the carrying value and fair
value of debt was $19.0 billion and $18.0 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2024, the carrying value and fair value of debt was $18.2 billion and $16.8 billion, respectively.
Certain other financial instruments are carried on the consolidated balance sheets at cost or amortized cost basis, which approximates fair value due to their short-term, highly
liquid nature. These instruments include cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents, restricted security deposits held for customers, time
deposits, accounts receivable, settlement assets, accounts payable, settlement obligations and other accrued liabilities.

As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, long-term customer incentives included in other liabilities were $3,031 million and $2,820 million, respectively.

Effective
Interest Rate

Senior Notes

4.875 % Senior Notes due May 2034

4.727 %
5.063 %

1,150
1,100

1,150
1,100

4.262 %
4.446 %
4.633 %
5.047 %

5.003 %
4.923 %

880

781

1.138 %

700

700

2.112 %
1.981 %
3.013 %

3.420 %
3.430 %
3.896 %

3.030 %
3.689 %
2.147 %

3.598 %
3.990 %

3.044 %
3.893 %

938

The $300 million of Senior Notes due March 2028 are Floating Rate Notes that bear interest at a floating rate, reset quarterly, equal to the Compounded Secured Overnight Financing Rate

The Company has an interest rate swap that is accounted for as a fair value hedge. See Note 16 (Derivative and Hedging Instruments) for additional information.

As of December 31, 2024, the 2019 USD Notes due March 2025 were classified as short-term debt, net of unamortized discount and debt issuance costs, on the consolidated balance sheets.

Senior Notes
In February 2025, the Company issued $300 million principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due March 2028, $450 million principal amount of 4.550% notes due March 2028
and $500 million principal amount of 4.950% notes due March 2032 (collectively, the “2025 USD Notes”). The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2025 USD Notes, after
deducting the original issue discount, underwriting discount and offering expenses, were $1.242 billion.
The 2025 USD Notes are not subject to any financial covenants, are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with any future unsecured and unsubordinated
indebtedness. At the Company’s option, the notes may be redeemed in whole, or in part, at any time for a specified make-whole amount, with the exception of the Floating
Rate Notes.

The Company declared quarterly cash dividends on its Class A and Class B common stock as summarized below:

0.76
684

0.66
607

2.28
2,063

1.98
1,833

The following table presents the changes in the Company’s outstanding Class A and Class B common stock:

899.1
(5.8)
893.4

918.5
(6.3)
0.4
912.6

906.6
(14.7)
1.4
893.4

6.8
(0.1)

927.3
(16.5)
1.7
912.6

7.2
(0.1)

In December 2024 and 2023, the Company’s Board of Directors approved share repurchase programs of its Class A common stock authorizing the Company to repurchase up to
$12.0 billion and $11.0 billion, respectively. The following table summarizes the Company’s share repurchases of its Class A common stock:

Shares repurchased

8,169
14.7
554.47

7,565
16.5
458.36

As of September 30, 2025, the remaining authorization under share repurchase programs approved by the Company’s Board of Directors was $7.0 billion. Through October 27,
2025, the Company repurchased $1.2 billion dollar-value of shares. As of October 27, 2025, the remaining authorization under share repurchase programs approved by the
Company’s Board of Directors was $5.8 billion.

The changes in the balances of each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were
as follows:
For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, the decrease in the accumulated other comprehensive income related to the net investment hedges was driven primarily by the appreciation of
the euro against the U.S. dollar. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, the decrease in the accumulated other comprehensive income related to the net investment hedges was driven
primarily by the appreciation of the British pound against the U.S. dollar. See Note 16 (Derivative and Hedging Instruments) for additional information.

Represents foreign exchange derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedging instruments. Gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these contracts are deferred in
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently reclassified to the consolidated statements of operations when the underlying hedged transactions impact earnings. See Note

For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, the Company granted the following awards under the Mastercard Incorporated 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan, amended and
restated as of June 22, 2021 (the “LTIP”). The LTIP is a stockholder-approved plan that permits the grant of various types of equity awards to employees.
Weighted-Average
Grant-Date
Fair Value

0.2
1.0
0.2

192
566
608

The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the grant-date fair value of stock options and calculates the expected life and the expected volatility
based on historical Mastercard information. The expected life of stock options granted in 2025 was estimated to be six years, while the expected volatility was determined to
be 27.4%. These awards expire ten years from the date of grant and vest ratably over three years.
The fair value of restricted stock units (“RSUs”) is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the Company’s Class A common stock price, adjusted for the exclusion of
The Company uses the Monte Carlo simulation valuation model to determine the grant-date fair value of performance stock units (“PSUs”) granted. PSUs vest after three years
from the date of grant and are subject to a mandatory one-year deferral period, during which vested PSUs are eligible for dividend equivalents.
Compensation expense is recorded net of estimated forfeitures over the shorter of the vesting period or the date the individual becomes eligible to retire under the LTIP. The
Company uses the straight-line method of attribution over the requisite service period for expensing equity awards.

The effective income tax rates for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were 21.5% and 15.6%, respectively. The effective income tax rates for the nine
months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were 20.4% and 16.1%, respectively.
The higher effective income tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, versus the comparable periods in 2024, were primarily due to the 15% global
minimum tax (Pillar 2 Rules) and a change in the Company’s geographic mix of earnings. The Pillar 2 Rules took effect in 2025 in Singapore and various other jurisdictions and
largely offsets the reduction to the Company’s effective income tax rate resulting from the Company’s incentive grant received from the Singapore Ministry of Finance.
The Company is subject to tax in the United States, Belgium, Singapore, the United Kingdom and various other foreign jurisdictions, as well as state and local jurisdictions.
Uncertain tax positions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are adjusted after considering facts and circumstances, including progress of tax audits, developments in case law
and closing of statutes of limitation. Within the next twelve months, the Company believes that the resolution of certain federal, foreign and state and local examinations is
reasonably possible and that a change in estimate, reducing unrecognized tax benefits, may occur. While such a change may be significant, it is not possible to provide a range
of the potential change until the examinations progress further or the related statutes of limitation expire. The Company has effectively settled its U.S. federal income tax
obligations through 2014. With limited exception, the Company is no longer subject to state and local or foreign examinations by tax authorities for years before 2014.

Mastercard is a party to legal and regulatory proceedings with respect to a variety of matters in the ordinary course of business. Some of these proceedings are based on
complex claims involving substantial uncertainties and unascertainable damages. Accordingly, it is not possible to determine the probability of loss or estimate damages, and
therefore, Mastercard has not established liabilities for any of these proceedings, except as discussed below. When the Company determines that a loss is both probable and
reasonably estimable, Mastercard records a liability and discloses the amount of the liability if it is material. When a material loss contingency is only reasonably possible,
Mastercard does not record a liability, but instead discloses the nature and the amount of the claim, and an estimate of the loss or range of loss, if such an estimate can be
made. Unless otherwise stated below with respect to these matters, Mastercard cannot provide an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss based on one or more of the
following reasons: (1) actual or potential plaintiffs have not claimed an amount of monetary damages or the amounts are unsupportable or exaggerated, (2) the matters are in
early stages, (3) there is uncertainty as to the outcome of pending appeals or motions, (4) there are significant factual issues to be resolved, (5) the proceedings involve
multiple defendants or potential defendants whose share of any potential financial responsibility has yet to be determined and/or (6) there are novel legal issues presented.
Furthermore, except as identified with respect to the matters below, Mastercard does not believe that the outcome

of any individual existing legal or regulatory proceeding to which it is a party will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and overall
business. However, an adverse judgment or other outcome or settlement with respect to any proceedings discussed below could result in fines or payments by Mastercard
and/or could require Mastercard to change its business practices. In addition, an adverse outcome in a regulatory proceeding could lead to the filing of civil damage claims and
possibly result in significant damage awards. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Mastercard’s results of operations, financial condition and overall
business.

Mastercard’s interchange fees and other practices are subject to regulatory, legal review and/or challenges in a number of jurisdictions, including the proceedings described
below. When taken as a whole, the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation with respect to interchange fees and acceptance practices may have a material adverse effect
on the Company’s prospects for future growth and its overall results of operations and financial condition.
In 2005, the first of a series of complaints were filed on behalf of merchants (the majority of the complaints were styled as class actions, although a few complaints were filed
on behalf of individual merchant plaintiffs) against Mastercard International, Visa U.S.A., Inc., Visa International Service Association and a number of financial institutions.
Taken together, the claims in the complaints were generally brought under both Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, which prohibit monopolization and attempts or
conspiracies to monopolize a particular industry, and some of these complaints contain unfair competition law claims under state law. The complaints allege, among other
things, that Mastercard, Visa, and certain financial institutions conspired to set the price of interchange fees, enacted point-of-sale acceptance rules (including the “no
surcharge” rule) in violation of antitrust laws and engaged in unlawful tying and bundling of certain products and services, resulting in merchants paying excessive costs for the
acceptance of Mastercard and Visa credit and debit cards. The cases were consolidated for pre-trial proceedings in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York in
MDL No. 1720 (the “U.S. MDL Litigation Cases”). The plaintiffs filed a consolidated class action complaint seeking treble damages.
In 2006, the group of purported merchant class plaintiffs filed a supplemental complaint alleging that Mastercard’s initial public offering of its Class A Common Stock in May
2006 (the “IPO”) and certain purported agreements entered into between Mastercard and financial institutions in connection with the IPO: (1) violate U.S. antitrust laws and
(2) constituted a fraudulent conveyance because the financial institutions allegedly attempted to release, without adequate consideration, Mastercard’s right to assess them
for Mastercard’s litigation liabilities. The class plaintiffs sought treble damages and injunctive relief including, but not limited to, an order reversing and unwinding the IPO.
In 2011, Mastercard and Mastercard International entered into each of: (1) an omnibus judgment sharing and settlement sharing agreement with Visa Inc., Visa U.S.A. Inc. and
Visa International Service Association and a number of financial institutions; and (2) a Mastercard settlement and judgment sharing agreement with a number of financial
institutions. The agreements provide for the apportionment of certain costs and liabilities which Mastercard, the Visa parties and the financial institutions may incur, jointly
and/or severally, in the event of an adverse judgment or settlement of one or all of the U.S. MDL Litigation Cases. Among a number of scenarios addressed by the agreements,
in the event of a global settlement involving the Visa parties, the financial institutions and Mastercard, Mastercard would pay 12% of the monetary portion of the settlement.
In the event of a settlement involving only Mastercard and the financial institutions with respect to their issuance of Mastercard cards, Mastercard would pay 36% of the
In 2012, the parties entered into a definitive settlement agreement with respect to the U.S. MDL Litigation Cases (including with respect to the claims related to the IPO) and
the defendants separately entered into a settlement agreement with the individual merchant plaintiffs. The settlements included cash payments that were apportioned among
the defendants pursuant to the omnibus judgment sharing and settlement sharing agreement described above. Mastercard also agreed to provide class members with a shortterm reduction in default credit interchange rates and to modify certain of its business practices, including its no surcharge rule. The court granted final approval of the
settlement in 2013. Following an appeal by objectors and as a result of a reversal of the settlement approval by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, the case was
sent back to the district court for further proceedings. The court divided the merchants’ claims into two separate classes - monetary damages claims (the “Damages Class”) and
claims seeking changes to business practices (the “Rules Relief Class”). The court appointed separate counsel for each class.
In 2018, the parties to the Damages Class litigation entered into a class settlement agreement to resolve the Damages Class claims, with merchants representing slightly more
than 25% of the Damages Class interchange volume choosing to opt out of the settlement. The Damages Class settlement agreement became final in 2023. Since 2018,
Mastercard has reached settlements or agreements in principle to settle with over 250 opt-out merchants. These opt-out merchant settlements, along with the Damages Class
Approximately 55 individual opt-out merchants continue to litigate, seeking treble damages and attorneys’ fees and costs. In 2024, the district court denied the defendants’
motions for summary judgment with respect to these ongoing individual opt-out merchant cases, sending the cases back to their original jurisdictions for trials. The remaining

approximately $10 billion with respect to their Mastercard purchase volume. Mastercard would be responsible for 36% of any Mastercard-related judgment pursuant to the
2011 judgment and settlement sharing agreement discussed above. The first trial in the opt-out merchant cases, which will involve six of the larger opt-out merchants, has
been rescheduled for April 2026.
In 2021, the district court granted the Rules Relief Class’s motion for class certification. In 2024, the parties to the Rules Relief Class litigation entered into a settlement
agreement to resolve the Rules Relief Class claims, which was subsequently denied by the court. The parties are in ongoing settlement discussions. The court has not yet
As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, Mastercard accrued a liability of $512 million and $559 million, respectively, for the U.S. MDL Litigation Cases. The liability
as of September 30, 2025 represents Mastercard’s best estimate of its probable liabilities in these matters and does not represent an estimate of a loss, if any, if the matters
were litigated to a final outcome. Mastercard cannot estimate the potential liability if that were to occur.
Europe
Since 2012, a number of United Kingdom (“U.K.”) merchants filed claims or threatened litigation against Mastercard seeking damages for excessive costs paid for acceptance of
Mastercard credit and debit cards arising out of alleged anti-competitive conduct with respect to, among other things, Mastercard’s cross-border interchange fees and its U.K.
and Ireland domestic interchange fees (the “U.K. Merchant claimants”). In addition, Mastercard has faced similar filed or threatened litigation by merchants with respect to
interchange rates in other countries in Europe (the “Pan-European Merchant claimants”). Mastercard has resolved a substantial amount of these damages claims through
settlement or judgment. Following these settlements, approximately £0.2 billion (approximately $0.3 billion as of September 30, 2025) of unresolved damages claims remain.
Mastercard continues to litigate with the remaining U.K. and Pan-European Merchant claimants and it has submitted statements of defense disputing liability and damages
claims. A number of those matters are now progressing with motion practice and discovery. Hearings involving both liability and damages issues involving multiple merchant
cases have been completed. In June 2025, the trial court in the U.K. merchant action decided against Mastercard on certain liability issues. This decision, which Mastercard is
seeking to appeal, does not determine the outcome of these claims. The court must still determine additional liability and damages issues, some of which have yet to be tried.
Additional United Kingdom matters. Mastercard and Visa were served with a proposed collective action complaint in the U.K. on behalf of merchants seeking damages for
commercial card transactions in both the U.K. and the European Union. In 2023, the plaintiffs filed a revised collective action application claiming damages against Mastercard
in excess of £1 billion (approximately $1.3 billion as of September 30, 2025). In June 2024, the court granted the plaintiffs’ collective action application. Mastercard’s request
for permission to appeal this ruling was denied, and a trial has not yet been scheduled.
In 2016, a proposed collective action was filed in the U.K. on behalf of U.K. consumers seeking damages for intra-European Economic Area (“EEA”) and domestic U.K.
interchange fees that were allegedly passed on to consumers by merchants between 1992 and 2008. The complaint, which sought to leverage the European Commission’s
2007 decision on intra-EEA interchange fees, claimed damages in an amount that exceeded £10 billion (approximately $13 billion as of September 30, 2025). In 2021, the trial
court issued a decision in which it granted class certification to the plaintiffs but narrowed the scope of the class. Since January 2023, the trial court has held hearings on
various issues, including whether any causal connection existed between the levels of Mastercard’s intra-EEA interchange fees and U.K. domestic interchange fees and
regarding Mastercard’s request to narrow the number of years of damages sought by the plaintiffs on statute of limitations grounds. In February 2024, the trial court ruled in
Mastercard’s favor, finding no causal connection between the levels of Mastercard’s intra-EEA interchange fees and U.K. domestic interchange fees. In June 2024, the trial court
ruled in Mastercard’s favor with respect to its request to dismiss five years of the plaintiffs’ damages claims on statute of limitations grounds. The plaintiffs’ request for
permission to appeal this ruling was granted. In December 2024, the parties entered into a settlement agreement to resolve this matter. Mastercard recorded an accrual of
£200 million ($268 million as of September 30, 2025) in December 2024 in connection with this settlement agreement. The trial court issued their written approval of the
settlement in May 2025. The litigation funder for this claim is seeking permission to appeal (by way of judicial review) the trial court’s allocation of the settlement amount,
including the allocation between the class and the funder. The funder is not seeking permission to appeal the trial court’s approval of the settlement itself.
Portugal. Mastercard has been named as a defendant in a proposed consumer collective action filed in Portugal on behalf of Portuguese consumers. The complaint, which
seeks to leverage the 2019 resolution of the European Commission’s investigation of Mastercard’s central acquiring rules and interregional interchange fees, claims damages of
approximately €0.4 billion (approximately $0.5 billion as of September 30, 2025) for interchange fees that were allegedly passed on to consumers by Portuguese merchants for
a period of approximately 20 years. Mastercard has submitted a statement of defense that disputes both liability and damages.
Netherlands. In July 2025, Mastercard and Visa were served with a proposed collective action in the Netherlands on behalf of Dutch merchants. The complaint, which relates to
interregional interchange fees covering the period from 1992 and ongoing, seeks declaratory relief and damages estimated in excess of €0.3 billion (approximately $0.4 billion
Australia
In 2022, the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission (“ACCC”) filed a complaint targeting certain agreements entered into by Mastercard and certain Australian
merchants related to Mastercard’s debit program. The ACCC alleges that by entering into such

agreements, Mastercard engaged in conduct with the purpose of substantially lessening competition in the supply of debit card acceptance services. The ACCC seeks both
declaratory relief and monetary fines and costs. A hearing on liability issues is scheduled for April 2026.

In 2011, a trade association of independent ATM operators and 13 independent ATM operators filed a complaint styled as a class action lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the
District of Columbia against both Mastercard and Visa (the “ATM Operators Class Complaint”). Plaintiffs seek to represent a class of non-bank operators of ATM terminals that
operate in the United States with the discretion to determine the price of the ATM access fee for the terminals they operate. Plaintiffs allege that Mastercard and Visa have
violated Section 1 of the Sherman Act by imposing rules that require ATM operators to charge non-discriminatory ATM surcharges for transactions processed over Mastercard’s
and Visa’s respective networks that are not greater than the surcharge for transactions over other networks accepted at the same ATM. Plaintiffs seek both injunctive and
monetary relief equal to treble the damages they claim to have sustained as a result of the alleged violations and their costs of suit, including attorneys’ fees.
Subsequently, multiple related complaints were filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia alleging both federal antitrust and multiple state unfair competition,
consumer protection and common law claims against Mastercard and Visa on behalf of different putative classes of users of ATM services. The claims in these actions largely
mirrored the allegations made in the ATM Operators Class Complaint, although these complaints sought damages on behalf of consumers of ATM services who paid allegedly
inflated ATM fees at both bank (“Bank ATM Consumer Class Complaint”) and non-bank (“Non-bank ATM Consumer Class Complaint”) ATM operators as a result of the
defendants’ ATM rules. Plaintiffs sought both injunctive and monetary relief equal to treble the damages they claimed to have sustained as a result of the alleged violations and
their costs of suit, including attorneys’ fees. In 2023, the D.C. Circuit Court affirmed the district court’s previous order granting class certification to the plaintiffs in all three
class complaints.
In 2024, Mastercard executed a settlement agreement with the class lawyers representing the plaintiffs in the Bank ATM Consumer Class Complaint, subject to court approval,
and recorded an accrual of $93 million in connection with this matter. In June 2025, the court issued a decision approving the settlement.
In August 2025, Mastercard executed a settlement agreement with the class lawyers representing the plaintiffs in the Non-bank ATM Consumer Class Complaint, subject to
court approval. During the second quarter of 2025, Mastercard recorded an accrual of $79 million in connection with this matter.
The litigation with respect to the ATM Operators Class Complaint is ongoing. The plaintiffs in this class complaint allege over $1 billion in single damages against all of the
defendants.

In 2016, a proposed U.S. merchant class action complaint was filed in federal court in California alleging that Mastercard, Visa, American Express and Discover (the “Network
Defendants”), EMVCo, and a number of issuing banks (the “Bank Defendants”) engaged in a conspiracy to shift fraud liability for card present transactions from issuing banks to
merchants not yet in compliance with the standards for EMV chip cards in the United States (the “EMV Liability Shift”), in violation of the Sherman Act and California law.
Plaintiffs alleged damages equal to the value of all chargebacks for which class members became liable as a result of the EMV Liability Shift on October 1, 2015. The plaintiffs
sought treble damages, attorney’s fees and costs and an injunction against future violations of governing law. The district court denied the Network Defendants’ motion to
dismiss the complaint, but granted such a motion for EMVCo and the Bank Defendants. In 2017, the district court transferred the case to New York so that discovery could be
coordinated with the U.S. MDL Litigation Cases described above. In 2020, the district court issued an order granting the plaintiffs’ request for class certification. The plaintiffs
submitted expert reports that allege aggregate single damages in excess of $1 billion against the four Network Defendants. The Network Defendants submitted expert reports
rebutting both liability and damages. In September 2024, the district court denied the Network Defendants’ motion for summary judgment. In September 2025, Mastercard
executed a settlement agreement with the class lawyers to resolve the matter, subject to court approval. During the third quarter of 2025, Mastercard recorded an accrual of

Mastercard is a defendant in a Telephone Consumer Protection Act (“TCPA”) class action pending in Florida. The plaintiffs are individuals and businesses who allege that
approximately 381,000 unsolicited faxes were sent to them advertising a Mastercard co-brand card issued by First Arkansas Bank (“FAB”). The TCPA provides for uncapped
statutory damages of $500 per fax. Mastercard has asserted various defenses to the claims, and has notified FAB of an indemnity claim that it has (which FAB has disputed). In
2019, the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) issued a declaratory ruling clarifying that the TCPA does not apply to faxes sent to online fax services that are received
online via email. In 2021, the trial court granted plaintiffs’ request for class certification, but narrowed the scope of the class to stand alone fax recipients only. Mastercard’s
request to appeal that decision was denied. Briefing on plaintiffs’ motion to amend the class definition and Mastercard’s cross-motion to decertify the stand alone fax recipient
class was completed in April 2023 and the parties await the court’s decision.

In 2023, Mastercard received a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) from the U.S. Department of Justice Antitrust Division (“DOJ”) seeking documents and information regarding
a potential violation of Sections 1 or 2 of the Sherman Act. The CID focuses on Mastercard’s U.S. debit program and competition with other payment networks and
technologies. Mastercard is cooperating with the DOJ in connection with the CID.

European Commission Investigation
In 2024, Mastercard received a formal request for information from the European Commission seeking documents and information in connection with an investigation into
alleged anti-competitive behavior of certain card scheme services in the European Union/EEA. The request focuses on Mastercard’s practices regarding network fees related to
acquirers. Mastercard is cooperating with the European Commission in connection with the request.

Mastercard’s rules guarantee the settlement of many of the payment network transactions between its customers (“settlement risk”). Settlement exposure is the settlement
risk to customers under Mastercard’s rules due to the difference in timing between the payment transaction date and subsequent settlement. For those transactions the
Company guarantees, the guarantee will cover the full amount of the settlement obligation to the extent the settlement obligation is not otherwise satisfied. The duration of
the settlement exposure is short-term and generally limited to a few days.
Gross settlement exposure is estimated using the average daily payment volume for the three months prior to period end multiplied by the estimated number of days of
exposure. The Company has global risk management policies, procedures and standards that provide a framework for managing the Company’s settlement risk and exposure.
In the event of failed settlement by a customer, Mastercard may pursue one or more remedies available under the Company’s rules to recover potential losses. Historically, the
As part of its policies, Mastercard requires certain customers that do not meet the Company’s risk standards to enter into risk mitigation arrangements, including cash
collateral and/or forms of credit enhancement such as letters of credit and guarantees. This requirement is based on a review of the individual risk circumstances for each
customer. Mastercard monitors its credit risk portfolio and the adequacy of its risk mitigation arrangements on a regular basis. Additionally, the Company periodically reviews
its risk management methodology and standards. The amounts of estimated settlement exposure are revised as necessary.
The Company’s estimated settlement exposure was as follows:

86,585

(15,733)

70,852

78,385
(13,466)

64,919

Mastercard also provides guarantees to customers and certain other counterparties indemnifying them from losses stemming from failures of third parties to perform duties.
This includes guarantees of Mastercard-branded travelers cheques issued, but not yet cashed. In addition, the Company enters into agreements in the ordinary course of
business under which the Company agrees to indemnify third parties against damages, losses and expenses incurred in connection with legal and other proceedings arising
from relationships or transactions with the Company. Certain indemnifications do not provide a stated maximum exposure. As the extent of the Company’s obligations under
these agreements depends entirely upon the occurrence of future events, the Company’s potential future liability under these agreements is not determinable. Historically,
payments made by the Company under these types of contractual arrangements have not been material.

The Company monitors and manages its foreign currency and interest rate exposures as part of its overall risk management program, which focuses on the unpredictability of
financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on its operating results. A primary objective of the
Company’s risk management strategies is to reduce the financial impact that may arise from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company uses both foreign
exchange derivative contracts (when the hedge costs are economically justified) and foreign currency denominated debt to manage its currency exposure. In addition, the
Company may enter into interest rate derivative contracts to manage the effects of interest rate movements on the Company’s aggregate liability portfolio, including potential
future debt issuances. The Company does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.

The Company may enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts, including forwards and options, to manage the impact of foreign currency variability on anticipated
revenues and expenses, which fluctuate based on currencies other than the functional currency of the entity. The objective of these hedging activities is to reduce the effect of
movement in foreign exchange rates for a portion of revenues and expenses forecasted to occur. As these contracts are designated as cash flow hedging instruments, gains and
losses resulting from changes in fair value of these contracts are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are subsequently reclassified to the
consolidated statements of operations when the underlying hedged transactions impact earnings. The terms of these contracts are generally less than 18 months.
In 2024, the Company entered into foreign exchange derivative contracts to hedge its exposure to variability in cash flows related to foreign denominated assets. Gains and
losses resulting from changes in fair value of these contracts are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are subsequently reclassified to the
consolidated statements of operations when the hedged transactions impact earnings. Forward points are excluded from the effectiveness assessment and are amortized to
general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations over the hedge period. The maximum term of these contracts was approximately 7 years.
In addition, the Company may enter into interest rate derivative contracts to manage the effects of interest rate movements on the Company’s aggregate liability portfolio,
including potential future debt issuances, and designate such derivatives as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedging relationship. Gains and losses resulting from changes in
fair value of these contracts are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are subsequently reclassified as an adjustment to interest expense over the

The Company may enter into interest rate derivative contracts, including interest rate swaps, to manage the effects of interest rate movements on the fair value of the
Company's fixed-rate debt and designate such derivatives as hedging instruments in a fair value hedging relationship. Changes in fair value of these contracts and changes in
fair value of fixed-rate debt attributable to changes in the hedged benchmark interest rate generally offset each other and are recorded in interest expense on the consolidated
statements of operations. Gains and losses related to the net settlements of interest rate swaps are also recorded in interest expense on the consolidated statements of
operations. The periodic cash settlements are included in operating activities on the consolidated statements of cash flows.
The Company has an interest rate swap designated as a fair value hedge related to $1.0 billion of the 3.850% Senior Notes due March 2050. In effect, the interest rate swap
synthetically converts the fixed interest rate on this debt to a variable interest rate based on the SOFR Overnight Index Swap Rate. The net impacts to interest expense for the
three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were not material.

The Company may use foreign currency denominated debt and/or foreign exchange derivative contracts to hedge a portion of its net investment in foreign subsidiaries against
adverse movements in exchange rates. The effective portion of the net investment hedge is recorded as a currency translation adjustment in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss). Forward points are excluded from the effectiveness assessment and are amortized to general and administrative expenses on the consolidated
statements of operations over the hedge period. No amounts were recognized in earnings related to forward points for the three months ended September 30, 2025. The
amounts recognized in earnings related to forward points for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024 were not
material.
As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, the Company had €1.7 billion and €1.3 billion euro-denominated debt outstanding designated as hedges of a portion of its
net investment in its European operations. In December 2024, the Company de-designated €400 million of the euro-denominated debt as net investment hedges to effectively
manage changes in its net investment exposures in foreign subsidiaries. The euro-denominated debt was subsequently re-designated as a net investment hedge effective
March 2025. For the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, the Company recorded pre-tax net foreign currency losses of $2 million and $77 million in other
comprehensive income (loss). For the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, the Company recorded pre-tax net foreign currency losses of $222 million and $19
As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, the Company had net foreign currency gains of $131 million and $295 million, after tax, respectively, in accumulated other

The Company may also enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to serve as economic hedges, such as to offset possible changes in the value of monetary assets and
liabilities due to foreign exchange fluctuations, without designating these derivative contracts as hedging instruments. In addition, the Company is subject to foreign exchange
risk as part of its daily settlement activities. This risk is typically limited to a few days between when a payment transaction takes place and the subsequent settlement with
customers. To manage this risk, the Company may enter into short duration foreign exchange derivative contracts based upon anticipated receipts and disbursements

for the respective currency position. The objective of these activities is to reduce the Company’s exposure to volatility arising from gains and losses resulting from fluctuations
of foreign currencies against its functional currencies. Gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value of these contracts are recorded in general and administrative
expenses on the consolidated statements of operations, net, along with the foreign currency gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities.
The following table summarizes the fair value of the Company’s derivative financial instruments and the related notional amounts:

Notional

Notional

5,102
Foreign exchange derivative assets and liabilities are included within prepaid expenses and other current assets, other assets, other current liabilities and other liabilities on the consolidated
balance sheets.

Interest rate derivative liabilities are included within other current liabilities and other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.

72

The Company’s derivative financial instruments are subject to both market and counterparty credit risk. Market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on
market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and other related variables.
Counterparty credit risk is the risk of loss due to failure of the counterparty to perform its obligations in accordance with contractual terms. The Company’s derivative contracts
are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements, which contain various netting and setoff provisions. However, the Company has elected to present derivative assets
and liabilities on a gross basis on the consolidated balance sheets. To mitigate counterparty credit risk, the Company enters into derivative contracts with a diversified group of
selected financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. Generally, the Company does not obtain collateral related to derivatives because of the high

Mastercard has concluded it has one reportable operating segment, “Payment Solutions.” The following represents the selected financial information of the Payment Solutions
segment:

Less:
Personnel
Includes fulfillment costs, occupancy costs, travel and meeting expenses and other overhead expenses.

Item 2. Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of
operations
The following supplements management's discussion and analysis of Mastercard Incorporated for the year ended December 31, 2024 as contained in the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 12, 2025 (“2024 Form 10-K”). It also should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes of Mastercard Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Mastercard International Incorporated (together,
“Mastercard” or the “Company”), included elsewhere in this Report. Percentage changes provided throughout “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” were calculated on amounts rounded to the nearest thousand.

We continue to monitor government actions and changes in policies across the globe, including those related to tariffs. The extent to which these developments affect our
business and results of operations, if at all, are uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time.

The following table provides a summary of our key GAAP operating results, as reported:

Operating income

5,061
58.8 %
21.5 %

4,004
54.3 %
15.6 %

26%
78%
23%

13,987
58.3 %
20.4 %

11,644
56.3 %
16.1 %

53%

The following table provides a summary of our key non-GAAP operating results1, adjusted to exclude the impact of gains and losses on our equity investments, Special Items
(which represent litigation judgments and settlements and certain one-time items) and the related tax impacts on our non-GAAP adjustments. In addition, we have presented

As adjusted

As adjusted

59.8 %
21.4 %
3,961
4.38

59.3 %
16.3 %
3,593
3.89

59.7 %
20.5 %
11,136
12.25

59.2 %
16.6 %
10,027
10.78

Key highlights for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, versus the comparable periods in 2024:

up 17%

up 15%

Both the as-reported and currency-neutral net revenue increases were attributable to growth in our payment

up 16%
The as-reported operating expenses increase was primarily due to higher general and administrative expenses
(which included a restructuring charge in the third quarter of 2024), partially offset by lower litigation
provisions. The as-adjusted operating expenses increase was primarily due to higher general and administrative
expenses.

21.5%

21.4%

Both the as-reported and as-adjusted effective income tax rates were higher versus the comparable period in
2024, primarily due to the 15% global minimum tax (Pillar 2 Rules) that took effect in 2025 and a change in our

20.4%

20.5%

Both the as-reported and as-adjusted effective income tax rates were higher versus the comparable period in
2024, primarily due to the Pillar 2 Rules that took effect in 2025 and a change in our geographic mix of
earnings.

Other financial highlights for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 were as follows:
• We repurchased 14.7 million shares of our common stock for $8.2 billion and paid dividends of $2.1 billion.

Non-GAAP financial information is defined as a numerical measure of a company’s performance that excludes or includes amounts so as to be different than the most
comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). As described more fully below, our
non-GAAP financial measures exclude, where applicable, the impact of gains and losses on our equity investments, which includes mark-to-market fair value adjustments,
impairments and gains and losses upon disposition, as well as the related tax impacts. Our non-GAAP financial measures also exclude, where applicable, the impact of special
items, which represent litigation judgments and settlements and/or certain one-time items, as well as the related tax impacts (“Special Items”). We also present growth rates
adjusted for the impact of currency, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe that the non-GAAP financial measures presented facilitate an understanding of our
operating performance and provide a meaningful comparison of our results between periods. We use non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our ongoing operations in
relation to historical results, for internal planning and forecasting purposes and in the calculation of performance-based compensation, among other things. We excluded these
items because management evaluates the underlying operations and performance of the Company separately from these recurring and nonrecurring items. Operating
expenses, operating margin, other income (expense), effective income tax rate, net income and diluted earnings per share, each as adjusted for the impact of gains and losses
on our equity investments, Special Items and/or the impact of currency, should not be relied upon as substitutes for measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Our non-GAAP financial measures for the comparable periods exclude the impact of the following:
• In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, we recorded net gains of $41 million ($31 million after tax, or $0.03 per diluted share) and $16 million ($11 million
after tax, or $0.01 per diluted share), respectively, primarily related to unrealized fair market value adjustments on marketable and nonmarketable equity securities.
• In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, we recorded net losses of $62 million ($63 million after tax, or $0.07 per diluted share) and $69 million ($67
million after tax, or $0.07 per diluted share), respectively, primarily related to unrealized fair market value adjustments on marketable and nonmarketable equity securities.
Special Items
• In the three months ended September 30, 2025, we recorded charges of $83 million ($65 million after tax, or $0.07 per diluted share), primarily due to a legal provision
associated with the U.S. liability shift litigation. In the nine months ended September 30, 2025, we recorded charges of $330 million ($240 million after tax, or $0.26 per
diluted share), primarily as a result of a change in estimate related to the claims of merchants who opted out of the U.S. merchant class litigation, a legal provision
associated with the U.S. liability shift litigation and a legal provision associated with the ATM non-discrimination rule surcharge complaints.
• In the three months ended September 30, 2024, we recorded charges of $176 million ($120 million after tax, or $0.13 per diluted share), primarily as a result of a change in
estimate related to the claims of merchants who opted out of the U.S. merchant class litigation. In the nine months ended September 30, 2024, we recorded charges of $400
million ($281 million after tax, or $0.30 per diluted share), primarily as a result of a change in estimate related to the claims of merchants who opted out of the U.S.
merchant class litigation, settlements with a number of U.K. merchants and a legal provision associated with the ATM non-discrimination rule surcharge complaints.
• In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, we recorded a restructuring charge of $190 million ($147 million after tax, or $0.16 per diluted share). The
restructuring action was intended to streamline our organization, delivering efficiencies to enable reinvestment in our business to support the realization of our long-term
growth opportunities.
See Note 5 (Investments) and Note 14 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Report for further
Currency-neutral growth rates are non-GAAP financial measures and are calculated by remeasuring the prior period’s results using the current period’s exchange rates for both
the translational and transactional impacts on operating results. The impact of currency translation represents the effect of translating operating results where the functional
currency is different from our U.S. dollar reporting currency. The impact of the transactional currency represents the effect of converting revenue and expenses occurring in a
currency other than the functional currency of the entity. The impact of the related realized gains and losses resulting from our foreign exchange derivative contracts
designated as cash flow hedging instruments (specifically those that manage the impact of foreign currency variability on anticipated revenues and expenses) is recognized in
the respective financial statement line item on the consolidated statements of operations when the underlying forecasted transactions impact earnings.

The translational and transactional impact of currency and the related impact of our foreign exchange derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedging instruments as
specified in the preceding paragraph (collectively, the “Currency Impact”) has been excluded from our currency-neutral growth rates and has been identified in the “Non-GAAP
Reconciliations” tables below and our “Drivers of Change” tables. See “Foreign Currency - Currency Impact” for further information on our currency impacts and “Financial
Results - Net Revenue” and “Financial Results - Operating Expenses” for our "Drivers of Change” tables.
The following tables reconcile our reported financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP to the respective adjusted non-GAAP financial measures:

(83)

58.8 % $
1.0 %
59.8 % $

(103)

21.5 % $
21.4 % $

(31)
65
3,961 $

(0.03)
4.38

(330)

58.3 % $
1.4 %
59.7 % $

(301)

20.4 % $
0.2 %
20.5 % $

240
11,136 $

(0.01)
0.26
12.25

(176)
(190)

54.3 % $
2.4 %
2.6 %
59.3 % $

(75)

15.6 % $
(0.3)%
0.7 %
0.3 %
16.3 % $

120
147
3,593

0.13
0.16
3.89

(400)
(190)

56.3 % $
1.9 %
0.9 %
59.2 % $

(211)

16.1 % $
(0.1)%
0.5 %
0.1 %
16.6 % $

67
281
147
10,027

0.30
0.16
10.78

The following tables represents the reconciliation of our growth rates reported under GAAP to our non-GAAP growth rates:
Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 as compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2024

(5)%

23%
(5)%

Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 as compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024

— ppt

In addition to the financial measures described above in “Financial Results Overview”, we review the following metrics to evaluate and identify trends in our business, measure
our performance, prepare financial projections and make strategic decisions. We believe that the key metrics presented facilitate an understanding of our operating and
Operating Margin measures how much profit we make on each dollar of sales after our operating costs but before other income (expense) and income tax expense. Operating
margin is calculated by dividing our operating income by net revenue.
Key Drivers
Gross Dollar Volume (“GDV”) measures dollar volume of activity, including both domestic and cross-border volume, on cards carrying our brands during the period, on a local
currency basis and U.S. dollar-converted basis. GDV represents purchase volume plus cash volume; “purchase volume” means the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made
with Mastercard-branded cards for the relevant period; and “cash volume” means the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements and includes the impact of balance
transfers and convenience checks obtained with Mastercard-branded cards for the relevant period. Information denominated in U.S. dollars relating to GDV is calculated by
applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which our volumes are reported. These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly
basis using the average exchange rate for each quarter. We report period-over-period rates of change in purchase volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency
information, in order to eliminate the impact of changes in the value of currencies against the U.S. dollar in calculating such rates of change. Data used in the calculation of
GDV is provided by our customers and is subject to verification by Mastercard and partial cross-checking against information provided by Mastercard’s transaction switching
systems. All data is subject to revision and amendment by Mastercard or our customers.
Cross-border Volume Growth measures the growth of cross-border dollar volume during the period, on a local currency basis and U.S. dollar-converted basis, for all
Switched Transactions measures the number of transactions switched by Mastercard, which is defined as the number of transactions initiated and switched through our

The following tables provide a summary of the growth trends in our key drivers:

19%

Assessments represent agreed-upon standard pricing provided to our customers based on various forms of payment-related activity. Assessments are used internally by
management to monitor operating performance as it allows for comparability and provides visibility into cardholder trends. Assessments do not represent our net revenue.
The following provides additional information on our key metrics related to the payment network:

Domestic assessments are charges based on activity related to cards that carry the Company’s brands where the merchant country and the country of issuance are the
same. These assessments are primarily driven by the domestic dollar volume of activity (e.g., domestic purchase volume, domestic cash volume) or the number of cards
issued.

Cross-border assessments are charges based on activity related to cards that carry the Company’s brands where the merchant country and the country of issuance are
different. These assessments are primarily driven by the cross-border dollar volume of activity (e.g., cross-border purchase volume, cross-border cash volume).

Transaction processing assessments are charges primarily driven by the number of switched transactions on our payment network. Switching activities include:

Authorization, the process by which a transaction is routed to the issuer for approval

Clearing, the determination and exchange of financial transaction information between issuers and acquirers after a transaction has been successfully conducted at

These assessments can also include connectivity services and network access, which are based on the volume of data transmitted and the number of authorization and
settlement messages.

Other network assessments are charges for licensing, implementation and other franchise fees.
746

7,707
9,997
697

Foreign Currency
Our primary revenue functional currencies are the U.S. dollar, euro, British pound and the Brazilian real. Our overall operating results are impacted by currency translation,
which represents the effect of translating operating results where the functional currency is different than our U.S. dollar reporting currency.
Our operating results are also impacted by transactional currency. The impact of the transactional currency represents the effect of converting revenue and expense
transactions occurring in a currency other than the functional currency. Changes in currency exchange rates directly impact the calculation of GDV, which is used in the
calculation of our key metrics related to domestic assessments and cross-border assessments as well as certain volume-related rebates and incentives. GDV is calculated based
on local currency spending volume converted to U.S. dollars and euros using average exchange rates for the period. As a result, our key metrics related to domestic
assessments and cross-border assessments as well as certain volume-related rebates and incentives are impacted by the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar and
euro versus local currencies. For example, our billing in Australia is in the U.S. dollar, however, consumer spend in Australia is in the Australian dollar. The transactional currency
impact of converting Australian dollars to our U.S. dollar billing currency will have an impact on the revenue generated. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar is
evident when GDV growth on a U.S. dollar-converted basis is compared to GDV growth on a local currency basis. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025,
GDV on a U.S. dollar-converted basis increased 10% and 8%, respectively, while GDV on a local currency basis increased 9% for each of the periods, versus the comparable
periods in 2024. Further, the impact from transactional currency occurs in our key metrics related to transaction processing assessments and other network assessments as
well as value-added services and solutions revenue and operating expenses when the transacting currency of these items is different than the functional currency of the entity.
To manage the impact of foreign currency variability on anticipated revenues and expenses, we may enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts and designate such
derivatives as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedging relationship as discussed further in Note 16 (Derivative and Hedging Instruments) to the consolidated financial
We incur foreign currency gains and losses from remeasuring monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the
entity. To manage this foreign exchange risk, we may enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to economically hedge the foreign currency exposure of our
nonfunctional currency monetary assets and liabilities. The gains or losses resulting from the changes in fair value of these contracts are intended to reduce the potential effect
of the underlying hedged exposure and are recorded net within general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations. The impact of this foreign
exchange activity, including the related hedging activities, has not been eliminated in our currency-neutral results.
Our foreign exchange risk management activities are discussed further in Note 16 (Derivative and Hedging Instruments) to the consolidated financial statements included in

Financial Results
The components of net revenue were as follows:

5,179
3,423

4,629
2,740

25%

14,556
9,429

12,924
7,754

22%

Net revenue increased 17%, or 15% on a currency-neutral basis, versus the comparable period in 2024, which included a 1 percentage point increase from acquisitions
completed in 2024 (“Acquisitions”). The remaining increase in net revenue was attributable to organic growth in both our payment network and value-added services and
solutions.

Net revenue from our payment network increased 12%, or 10% on a currency-neutral basis, versus the comparable period in 2024. The increase was primarily driven by growth
in domestic and cross-border dollar volumes and an increase in the number of switched transactions, reflecting growth trends across all of our key drivers. Net revenue from
our payment network included $5,389 million of rebates and incentives provided to customers, which increased 16%, or 15% on a currency-neutral basis, versus the
comparable period in 2024, primarily due to an increase in our key drivers as well as new and renewed deals.
Net revenue from our value-added services and solutions increased 25%, or 22% on a currency-neutral basis, versus the comparable period in 2024, which included a 3
percentage point increase from Acquisitions. The remaining increase was driven primarily by (1) growth in our underlying key drivers, (2) our security and digital and
authentication solutions, consumer acquisition and engagement services, and business and market insights and (3) pricing.
Net revenue increased 16%, on both an as-reported and currency-neutral basis, versus the comparable period in 2024, which included a 1 percentage point increase from
Acquisitions. The remaining increase in net revenue was attributable to organic growth in both our payment network and value-added services and solutions.
Net revenue from our payment network increased 13%, on both an as-reported and currency-neutral basis, versus the comparable period in 2024. The increase was primarily
driven by growth in domestic and cross-border dollar volumes and an increase in the number of switched transactions, reflecting growth trends across all of our key drivers.
Net revenue from our payment network included $14,891 million of rebates and incentives provided to customers, which increased 15%, on both an as-reported and currencyneutral basis, versus the comparable period in 2024, primarily due to an increase in our key drivers as well as new and renewed deals.
Net revenue from our value-added services and solutions increased 22%, or 21% on a currency-neutral basis, versus the comparable period in 2024, which included a 3
percentage point increase from Acquisitions. The remaining increase was driven primarily by (1) growth in our underlying key drivers, (2) our security and digital and
See Note 3 (Revenue) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of our 2024 Form 10-K for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies.

10 %
19 %

12 %
25 %
17 %

17 %
14 %

22 %
16 %

Includes the translational and transactional impact of currency and the related impact of our foreign exchange derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedging instruments. See “NonGAAP Financial Information - Currency-neutral Growth Rates” for further information on our currency impact non-GAAP adjustment.

For the three months ended September 30, 2025, operating expenses increased 5% versus the comparable period in 2024. Adjusted operating expenses increased 15%, or 14%
on a currency-neutral basis, versus the comparable period in 2024, which included a 4 percentage point increase from Acquisitions.
For the three months ended September 30, 2025, general and administrative expenses increased 7%, or 6% on a currency-neutral basis, versus the comparable period in 2024,
which included a 4 percentage point increase from Acquisitions and an 8 percentage point decrease from Special Items. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher
personnel costs to support the continued investment in our strategic initiatives across payments and value-added services and solutions as well as fulfillment costs to provide
marketing services.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, general and administrative expenses increased 10%, on both an as-reported and currency-neutral basis, versus the

For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, total general and administrative expenses included a restructuring charge of $190 million. See “Non-GAAP Financial Information” for
further information.

Foreign exchange activity includes the impact of remeasurement of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies net of the impact of gains and losses on foreign exchange derivative
contracts. See Note 16 (Derivative and Hedging Instruments) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 for further discussion.

For the three months ended September 30, 2025, advertising and marketing expenses increased 11%, or 9% on a currency-neutral basis, versus the comparable period in 2024,
which included a 2 percentage point increase from Acquisitions. The remaining increase was primarily due to an increase in spending on sponsorships.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, advertising and marketing expenses increased 17%, or 16% on a currency-neutral basis, versus the comparable period in 2024,
which included a 2 percentage point increase from Acquisitions. The remaining increase was primarily due to an increase in spending on sponsorships and marketing
campaigns.

For the three months ended September 30, 2025, depreciation and amortization expenses increased 29%, or 27% on a currency-neutral basis, versus the comparable period in
2024, which included a 13 percentage point increase from Acquisitions. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher capitalized software versus the comparable period
For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, depreciation and amortization expenses increased 27%, or 26% on a currency-neutral basis, versus the comparable period in
2024, which included a 13 percentage point increase from Acquisitions. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher capitalized software versus the comparable period

For the three months ended September 30, 2025, we recorded charges of $83 million, primarily due to a legal provision associated with the U.S. liability shift litigation. For the
nine months ended September 30, 2025, we recorded charges of $330 million, primarily as a result of a change in estimate related to the claims of merchants who opted out of
the U.S. merchant class litigation, a legal provision associated with the U.S. liability shift litigation and a legal provision associated with the ATM non-discrimination rule
surcharge complaints. See “Non-GAAP Financial Information” in this section and Note 14 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included

The components of total other income (expense) were as follows:

Income Taxes
The effective income tax rates for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were 21.5% and 15.6%, respectively. The adjusted effective income tax rates for the
three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were 21.4% and 16.3%, respectively. The effective income tax rates for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and
2024 were 20.4% and 16.1%, respectively. The adjusted effective income tax rates for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were 20.5% and 16.6%,
respectively. Both the as-reported and as-adjusted effective income tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 were higher versus the comparable
periods in 2024, primarily due to the Pillar 2 Rules and a change in our geographic mix of earnings. In 2025, the Pillar 2 Rules took effect in Singapore and various other
jurisdictions and largely offsets the reduction to our effective income tax rate resulting from our incentive grant received from the Singapore Ministry of Finance. See Note 20
(Income Taxes) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of our 2024 Form 10-K for further information about this incentive grant.
In July 2025, the U.S. enacted the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA). While we continue to analyze the impacts of the OBBBA, at this time it is not expected to have a material

We rely on existing liquidity (our cash, cash equivalents and investments), cash generated from operations and access to capital to fund our global operations, credit and
settlement exposure, capital expenditures, investments in our business and current and potential obligations. The following table summarizes the cash, cash equivalents,

(in billions)

10.6
8.0

8.8
8.0

Investments include available-for-sale securities and held-to-maturity securities. This amount excludes restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents and restricted security deposits held for
customers at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024 of $2.5 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively.

We believe that our existing liquidity, our cash flow generating capabilities, and our access to capital resources are sufficient to satisfy our future operating cash needs, capital
asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations and potential obligations, which include litigation
Our liquidity and access to capital could be negatively impacted by global credit market conditions. We guarantee the settlement of many of the transactions between our
customers. Historically, payments under these guarantees have not been significant; however, historical trends may not be indicative of potential future losses. The risk of loss
on these guarantees is specific to individual customers, but may also be driven by regional or global economic and market conditions, including, but not limited to the health of
the financial institutions in a country or region. See Note 15 (Settlement and Other Risk Management) to the consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 for a description

Our liquidity and access to capital could also be negatively impacted by the outcome of any of the legal or regulatory proceedings to which we are a party. For additional
discussion of these and other risks facing our business, see Part I, Item 1A - Risk Factors of our 2024 Form 10-K and Note 14 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the

Cash Flows
The table below shows a summary of the cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities:

12,646 $
(941) $
(9,993) $

9,946
(724)
(6,795)

Net cash provided by operating activities increased $2,700 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, versus the comparable period in 2024, primarily due to
Net cash used in investing activities increased $217 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, versus the comparable period in 2024, primarily due to lower
proceeds from maturities and sales of investment securities, partially offset by lower purchases of investment securities.
Net cash used in financing activities increased $3,198 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, versus the comparable period in 2024, primarily due to lower
proceeds from debt and higher cash paid for repurchases of our Class A common stock and dividends, partially offset by higher repayments of debt in the prior year.

In February 2025, we issued $300 million principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due March 2028, $450 million principal amount of 4.550% notes due March 2028 and $500
million principal amount of 4.950% notes due March 2032 (collectively, the “2025 USD Notes”). The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2025 USD Notes, after deducting the
original issue discount, underwriting discount and offering expenses, were $1.242 billion.
In March 2025, $750 million of principal related to the 2019 USD Notes matured and was paid. Our total debt outstanding at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024 was
$19.0 billion and $18.2 billion, respectively, with the earliest maturity of $750 million of principal occurring in November 2026.
As of September 30, 2025, we have a commercial paper program (the “Commercial Paper Program”), under which we are authorized to issue up to $8 billion in outstanding
notes, with maturities up to 397 days from the date of issuance. In conjunction with the Commercial Paper Program, we have a committed unsecured $8 billion revolving credit
Borrowings under the Commercial Paper Program and the Credit Facility are to be used to provide liquidity for general corporate purposes, including providing liquidity in the
event of one or more settlement failures by our customers. In addition, we may borrow and repay amounts under these facilities for business continuity purposes. We had no
borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program or the Credit Facility at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024.
See Note 9 (Debt) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 for further discussion on our debt and Note 15 (Debt) to the consolidated financial
statements included in Part II, Item 8 of our 2024 Form 10-K for further discussion on our debt, the Commercial Paper Program and the Credit Facility.

We have historically paid quarterly dividends on our outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Subject to legally available funds, we intend to continue to
pay a quarterly cash dividend. The declaration and payment of future dividends is at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account various factors,
including our financial condition, operating results, available cash and current and anticipated cash needs.
Aggregate payments for quarterly dividends for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 totaled $2,072 million.
On December 17, 2024, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.76 per share paid on February 7, 2025 to holders of record as of January 9, 2025 of our
Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The aggregate amount of this dividend was $694 million.

On February 10, 2025, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.76 per share paid on May 9, 2025 to holders of record as of April 9, 2025 of our Class A
common stock and Class B common stock. The aggregate amount of this dividend was $691 million.
On June 24, 2025, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.76 per share payable on August 8, 2025 to holders of record as of July 9, 2025 of our Class A
common stock and Class B common stock. The aggregate amount of this dividend was $687 million.
On September 16, 2025, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.76 per share payable on November 7, 2025 to holders of record as of October 9, 2025
of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. The aggregate amount of this dividend is $684 million.
Repurchased shares of our common stock are considered treasury stock. In December 2024 and 2023, our Board of Directors approved share repurchase programs of our Class
A common stock authorizing us to repurchase up to $12.0 billion and $11.0 billion, respectively. The program approved in 2024 became effective in April 2025 after the
completion of the program approved in 2023. The timing and actual number of additional shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including cash requirements
to meet the operating needs of the business, legal requirements, as well as the share price and economic and market conditions. The following table summarizes our share
repurchase authorizations and repurchase activity of our Class A common stock through September 30, 2025, unless otherwise noted:
data)

Dollar-value of shares repurchased for the nine months ended September 30, 2025
Average price paid per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2025

15,188
8,169
7,019
14.7
554.47
1,202

Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the potential impact of these pronouncements refer to Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies)

Market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in factors such as foreign currency exchange
rates and interest rates. Our exposure to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates is limited. Management monitors risk exposures on an
ongoing basis and establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our funding, investments and use of derivative financial instruments to manage these
risks.
Foreign currency and interest rate exposures are managed through our risk management activities, which are discussed further in Note 16 (Derivative and Hedging

We enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to manage currency exposure associated with anticipated receipts and disbursements occurring in a currency other than
the functional currency of the entity. We may also enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to offset possible changes in value of assets and liabilities due to foreign
exchange fluctuations. The objective of these activities is to reduce our exposure to gains and losses resulting from fluctuations of foreign currencies against our functional
currencies, principally the U.S. dollar and euro. The effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the value of the functional currencies could result in a fair value loss of
approximately $473 million and $475 million on our foreign exchange derivative contracts outstanding at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively, before
We are also subject to foreign exchange risk as part of our daily settlement activities. To manage this risk, we enter into short duration foreign exchange derivative contracts
based upon anticipated receipts and disbursements for the respective currency position. This risk is typically limited to a few days between when a payment transaction takes
place and the subsequent settlement with our customers. A hypothetical 10% adverse change in the value of the functional currencies would not have a material impact to the
fair value of our short duration foreign exchange derivative contracts outstanding at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024.
We are further exposed to foreign exchange rate risk related to translation of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries where the functional currency is different than our U.S.
dollar reporting currency. To manage this risk, we may enter into foreign exchange derivative

contracts to hedge a portion of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2025, we did not have any foreign exchange derivative contracts designated as a
net investment hedge. The effect of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the value of the U.S. dollar could result in a fair value loss of approximately $279 million on our
foreign exchange derivative contracts designated as a net investment hedge at December 31, 2024, before considering the offsetting effect of the underlying hedged activity.

Our available-for-sale debt investments include fixed and variable rate securities that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Our policy is to invest in high quality securities,
while providing adequate liquidity and maintaining diversification to avoid significant exposure. A hypothetical 100 basis point adverse change in interest rates would not have
a material impact to the fair value of our investments at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024.
We are also exposed to interest rate risk related to our fixed-rate debt. To manage this risk, we may enter into interest rate derivative contracts to hedge a portion of our fixedrate debt that is exposed to changes in fair value attributable to changes in a benchmark interest rate. The effect of a hypothetical 100 basis point adverse change in interest
rates could result in a fair value loss of approximately $14 million and $20 million on the fair value of our interest rate derivative contracts designated as a fair value hedge of
our fixed-rate debt at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively, before considering the offsetting effect of the underlying hedged activity.

Our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) are
designed to ensure that information that is required to be disclosed in the reports under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission and to ensure that information required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated
to management, including our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure. The President and Chief
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, with assistance from other members of management, have reviewed the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Report and, based on their evaluation, have concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
such date.

There was no change in Mastercard’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred for the three months ended September 30, 2025 that has materially affected, or is

Refer to Note 14 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1.

For a discussion of our risk factors, see Part I, Item 1A - Risk Factors of our 2024 Form 10-K.

For the third quarter of 2025, we repurchased 5.8 million shares for $3.3 billion at an average price of $573.21 per share of Class A common stock. The following table presents
our repurchase activity on a cash basis for the third quarter of 2025:

Period

Average Price
(including
commission cost)

Total Number
of Shares
Purchased

559.89
579.13
581.88
573.21

Programs

Shares that may yet
be Purchased under
Programs 1

Dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the repurchase programs is as of the end of the period. In December 2024 and 2023, our Board of Directors approved share repurchase
programs of our Class A common stock authorizing us to repurchase up to $12.0 billion and $11.0 billion, respectively.

For the three months ended September 30, 2025, none of our officers or directors adopted or terminated trading arrangements for the sale of shares of our common stock.

Other Information
Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, we hereby incorporate by reference herein the disclosure contained in Exhibit 99.1 of
this Report.

EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit index
Exhibit
Number

31.1*
31.2*
32.1*
32.2*
99.1*
101.INS
101.SCH*
101.CAL*
101.DEF*
101.LAB*
101.PRE*

Exhibit Description

Certification of Michael Miebach, President and Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
Certification of Sachin Mehra, Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002.
Certification of Michael Miebach, President and Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Certification of Sachin Mehra, Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.
Disclosure pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012.
XBRL Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL
document.

The agreements and other documents filed as exhibits to this Report are not intended to provide factual information or other disclosure other than with respect to the terms
of the agreements or other documents themselves, and should not be relied upon for that purpose. In particular, any representations and warranties made by the Company in
these agreements or other documents were made solely within the specific context of the relevant agreement or document and may not describe the actual state of affairs as
of the date they were made or at any other time.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.
(Registrant)

Sandra Arkell
Corporate Controller

1.

I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Mastercard Incorporated for the three months ended September 30, 2025;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The registrant’s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:
a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant’s most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The registrant’s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):
a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal

1.

I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Mastercard Incorporated for the three months ended September 30, 2025;

In connection with the quarterly report of Mastercard Incorporated (the "Company") on Form 10-Q for the three month period ended
September 30, 2025 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the “Report”), I, Michael Miebach, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge:
1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

In connection with the quarterly report of Mastercard Incorporated (the "Company") on Form 10-Q for the three month period ended
September 30, 2025 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the “Report”), I, Sachin Mehra, certify, pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge:
1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Mastercard Incorporated ("Mastercard") has established a risk-based compliance program designed to prevent us from having business dealings with Iran, as
well as other prohibited countries, regions, individuals or entities. This includes obligating issuers and acquirers to screen account holders and merchants,
respectively, against the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control’s (“OFAC”) sanctions lists, including the List of Specially Designated Nationals (“SDN list”).
We identified through our compliance program that for the period covered by this Report, acquirers located in the Europe region acquired transactions over
OFAC regulations and other legal authorities provide exemptions for certain activities involving dealings with Iran. However, Section 219 of the Iran Threat
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 requires us to disclose whether we, or any of our affiliates, have knowingly engaged in certain transactions or
dealings involving the Government of Iran or with certain persons or entities found on the SDN list, regardless of whether these dealings constitute a violation
We do not calculate net revenues or net profits associated with specific merchants (our customers’ customers). However, we used our fee schedule and the
aggregate number and amount of transactions involving the above merchants to estimate the net revenue and net profit we obtained with respect to the
period covered by this Report. Both the number of transactions and our estimated net revenue and net profits for this period are de minimis.