UNITED STATES

☒

QUARTERLY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

OR
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

to

.

Delaware

47-2989869

Identification No.)

San Jose,

California

95131

(Zip Code)

PYPL

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company”
Accelerated filer
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or
revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o

☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes ☐ No ☒
As of October 22, 2025, there were 935,651,953 shares of the registrant’s common stock, $0.0001 par value, outstanding, which is the only class of common or

Part I.

Part II.

Financial Information
Item 1.
Item 2.
Item 3.
Item 4.
Other Information
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
Item 1A.
Risk Factors
Item 2.
Item 3.
Item 4.
Item 5.
Other Information
Item 6.
Exhibits

Page
Number
revolutionize commerce globally. Our products are designed to enable digital payments and simplify commerce experiences for consumers and merchants to
make selling, shopping, and sending and receiving money simple, personalized, secure, online or offline, including mobile. Our two-sided platform serves
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of PayPal and our wholly- and majority-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
We determine at the inception of each investment, and re-evaluate if certain events occur, whether an entity in which we have made an investment is considered
a variable interest entity (“VIE”). If we determine an investment is in a VIE, we then assess if we are the primary beneficiary, which would require
consolidation. As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, no VIEs qualified for consolidation as the structures of these entities do not provide us with
both the ability to direct activities that would significantly impact their economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive
benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.
As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, the carrying value of our investments in nonconsolidated VIEs that are primarily investments in funds that
are limited partnerships or similar structures which are focused on increasing access to capital for underserved communities was $199 million and
$187 million, respectively, and is included as non-marketable equity securities applying the equity method of accounting in long-term investments on our
condensed consolidated balance sheets. Our maximum exposure to loss related to these nonconsolidated VIEs, which represents funded commitments and any
future funding commitments, was $246 million as of both September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024.
These condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements
and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 (the “2024 Form 10-K”) filed with the United
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments,
which are necessary for a fair statement of the condensed consolidated financial statements for all interim periods presented. Certain amounts for prior periods
have been reclassified to conform to the financial statement presentation as of and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025.
The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the
date of the condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis,
we evaluate our estimates, including those related to provisions for transaction and credit losses, income taxes, loss contingencies, revenue recognition, and the
evaluation of strategic investments for impairment. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions which we believe to be

Cash and cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments and are primarily comprised of bank deposits, PayPal USD stablecoin (“PYUSD”), money
market funds and debt securities with original maturities of three months or less when purchased. PYUSD is a stablecoin pegged to the U.S. dollar and fully
backed by U.S. dollar deposits, U.S. treasuries, and similar cash equivalents. Each token of PYUSD held by PayPal represents a contractual right to redeem
In December 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740):
Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures. The amended guidance enhances income tax disclosures primarily related to the effective tax rate reconciliation and
income taxes paid information. This guidance requires disclosure of specific categories in the effective tax rate reconciliation and additional information on
reconciling items meeting a quantitative threshold. In addition, the amended guidance requires disaggregating income taxes paid (net of refunds received) by
federal, state, and foreign taxes. It also requires disaggregating individual jurisdictions in which income taxes paid (net of refunds received) is equal to or
greater than 5 percent of total income taxes paid (net of refunds received). The amended guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15,
2024. The guidance can be applied either prospectively or retrospectively. We are evaluating the impact this amended guidance may have on the notes to our
consolidated financial statements.
In November 2024, the FASB issued ASU 2024-03, Income Statement – Reporting Comprehensive Income – Expense Disaggregation Disclosures (Subtopic
220-40): Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses. The amended guidance requires disaggregation of certain expense captions into specified natural
expense categories in the disclosures within the notes to the financial statements. In addition, the guidance requires disclosure of selling expenses and its
definition. The new guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2026, and interim reporting periods within annual reporting periods
beginning after December 15, 2027, with early adoption permitted. The guidance can be applied either prospectively or retrospectively. We are evaluating the
impact this amended guidance may have on the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In September 2025, the FASB issued ASU 2025-06, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other – Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Targeted Improvements to
the Accounting for Internal-Use Software. The amended guidance modernizes the accounting for costs related to internal-use software to more closely align
with current software development methods. The guidance removes references to project stages and clarifies when we are required to start capitalizing eligible
costs. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2027, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption
permitted. The guidance can be applied on a prospective basis, a modified basis for in-process projects, or a retrospective basis. We are evaluating the impact
this amended guidance may have on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-08, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other – Crypto Assets (Subtopic 350-60): Accounting for and Disclosure of
Crypto Assets. This amended guidance requires fair value measurement of certain crypto assets each reporting period, with the changes in fair value reflected in
net income. The amendments also require disclosures of the name, fair value, units held, and cost basis for each significant crypto asset held and annual
reconciliations of crypto asset holdings. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December
15, 2024. We adopted this guidance effective as of January 1, 2025. We have applied the amendments of this guidance as a cumulative-effect adjustment to
retained earnings. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.

In January 2025, the SEC released Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No. 122 rescinding SAB No. 121, which required an entity to record a liability to reflect
its obligation to safeguard the crypto assets held for its platform users with a corresponding asset and required disclosures related to the entity’s safeguarding
obligations. SAB No. 122 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024 and is required to be applied on a fully retrospective basis, with
early adoption permitted. We adopted this guidance as of March 31, 2025 and derecognized the crypto asset safeguarding liability and corresponding
safeguarding asset on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2024. Additionally, we derecognized the associated deferred tax asset and
liability as of December 31, 2024. The adoption of this guidance did not impact our condensed consolidated statements of income (loss), comprehensive
The following table presents the effects of the changes on the presentation of our condensed consolidated balance sheet:
Adjustments

81,611
61,194

As Adjusted

(2,886) $
(2,886) $

58,308

(1) As reported in our 2024 Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 4, 2025.

Financial statement lines impacted within total assets and total liabilities were “prepaid expenses and other current assets” and “accrued expenses and other current liabilities”, respectively.

There are other new accounting pronouncements issued by the FASB that we have adopted or will adopt, as applicable. We do not believe any of these new
accounting pronouncements have had, or will have, a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements or disclosures.
We enable our customers to send and receive payments. We earn revenue primarily by completing payment transactions for our customers on our payments
platform and from other value added services. Our revenues are classified into two categories: transaction revenues and revenues from other value added
services.
We record a contract asset when we have a conditional right to consideration for services we have already transferred to our customer. These contract assets are
included in other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and were $203 million and $207 million as of September 30, 2025 and December 31,
2024, respectively.
We believe that the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of our revenue and cash flows and how they are affected by economic factors are most
appropriately depicted through our primary geographical markets and types of revenue categories (transaction revenues and revenues from other value added
services). Revenues recorded within these categories are earned from similar products and services for which the nature of associated fees and the related
revenue recognition models are substantially similar.

The following table presents our revenue disaggregated by primary geographical market and category:

U.S.
21,254
2,177

No single country included in the other countries category generated more than 10% of total net revenues.
Total net revenues include $542 million and $515 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, and $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion for the nine months ended
September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, which do not represent revenues recognized in the scope of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue from contracts with customers. Such
revenues relate to interest and fees earned on loans and interest receivable, including loans and interest receivable, held for sale, hedging gains or losses, and interest earned and gains or losses on

Net revenues are attributed to the country in which the party paying our fee is located.
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) for the period by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during the period. Diluted net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) for the period by the weighted average number of shares of
common stock and potentially dilutive common stock outstanding for the period. The dilutive effect of outstanding equity incentive awards is reflected in
diluted net income (loss) per share by application of the treasury stock method. The calculation of diluted net income (loss) per share excludes all anti-dilutive
common shares. During periods when we report net loss, diluted net loss per share is the same as basic net loss per share because the effects of potentially
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share for the periods indicated:

Numerator:
Denominator:
per diluted share because their effect would have been antidilutive or potentially dilutive

950
960

1.31

1,015
1,024

1.00

968
978

3.92

1,040
1,048

2.91

In the second quarter of 2025, we completed an acquisition with a total purchase price of $19 million, consisting of cash consideration, which was accounted
for as a business combination. There were no acquisitions accounted for as business combinations in the nine months ended September 30, 2024.
There were no divestitures completed in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024.
GOODWILL
The following table presents goodwill balances and adjustments to those balances during the nine months ended September 30, 2025:

Amortization expense for intangible assets was $47 million and $51 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively.
Amortization expense for intangible assets was $142 million and $159 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively.
Expected future intangible asset amortization as of September 30, 2025 was as follows (in millions):
Fiscal years:
Remaining 2025

95
45

PayPal enters into various leases, which are primarily real estate operating leases. We use these properties for executive and administrative offices, customer
services and operations centers, product development offices, and data centers. PayPal also enters into computer equipment finance leases.
While a majority of our lease agreements do not contain an explicit interest rate, certain of our lease agreements are subject to changes based on the Consumer
Price Index or another referenced index. In the event of changes to the relevant index, lease liabilities are not remeasured and instead are treated as variable
lease payments and recognized in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.
Gross amortized cost and estimated fair value balances exclude accrued interest receivable on available-for-sale debt securities, which totaled $121 million and
$140 million at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively, and were included in other current assets on our condensed consolidated balance
sheets.

As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, the gross unrealized losses and estimated fair value of our available-for-sale debt securities included within
356
610
6,578

“—” Denotes gross unrealized loss or fair value of less than $1 million in a given position.

Unrealized losses have not been recognized into income as we neither intend to sell, nor anticipate that it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell,
the securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. The decline in fair value was due primarily to changes in market interest rates, rather than credit
losses. We will continue to monitor the performance of the investment portfolio and assess whether impairment due to expected credit losses has occurred.
The table below presents cash inflows related to available-for-sale debt securities:

7,380

7,170

19,921

27,407

During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and the three months ended September 30, 2024, we incurred gross realized gains and losses
which were de minimis. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024, we incurred gross realized losses of $43 million and gains which were de minimis.
Gross realized gains and losses were determined using the specific identification method.
Our available-for-sale debt securities included within cash and cash equivalents, funds receivable and customer accounts, short-term investments, and longterm investments classified by date of contractual maturity were as follows:

9,386
3,949
2,471
2,964
18,770

9,388
3,956
2,473
2,965
18,782

Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities as certain securities may be prepaid.
Non-cash investing transactions that were not reflected in the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2025
and 2024 include the purchase of investments of $127 million and $75 million, respectively, that have not yet settled.
STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS
Our strategic investments include marketable equity securities, which are publicly traded, and non-marketable equity securities, which are primarily
investments in privately held companies. Our marketable equity securities have readily determinable fair values and are recorded as long-term investments on
our condensed consolidated balance sheets at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income (expense), net on our condensed consolidated
statements of income (loss). Marketable equity securities totaled $15 million and $23 million as of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively.
Our non-marketable equity securities are recorded as long-term investments on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The carrying value of our nonmarketable equity securities totaled $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion as of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively. As of September 30, 2025 and
December 31, 2024, we had non-marketable equity securities of $213 million and $200 million, respectively, for which we have the ability to exercise
significant influence, but not control, over the investee. We account for these equity securities using the equity method of accounting. The remaining nonmarketable equity securities do not have a readily determinable fair value and we measure these equity investments at cost minus impairment, if any, and adjust
for changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment in the same issuer (the “Measurement
Alternative”). All gains and losses on these investments, realized and unrealized, and our share of earnings or losses from investments accounted for using the
equity method are recognized in other income (expense), net on our condensed consolidated statements of income (loss).
Measurement Alternative adjustments
The adjustments to the carrying value of our non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the Measurement Alternative in the three and nine months
ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were as follows:

1,359
19,571

Excludes cash and cash equivalents of $8.5 billion not measured and recorded at fair value.
Excludes time deposits of $104 million not measured and recorded at fair value.
Excludes cash, time deposits, and funds receivable of $23.3 billion underlying funds receivable and customer accounts not measured and recorded at fair value.
Derivative assets and liabilities are included within “prepaid expenses and other current assets” and “other assets” and “accrued expenses and other current liabilities” and “other long-term
Excludes non-marketable equity securities of $1.6 billion measured using the Measurement Alternative or equity method accounting.

Identical Assets
(Level 1)

Assets:
Liabilities:

379
667
14,700

379
667
14,700

3,025
22,136

3,002
22,099

Excludes cash and cash equivalents of $6.6 billion not measured and recorded at fair value.
Excludes restricted cash of $1 million and time deposits of $129 million not measured and recorded at fair value.

(3) Excludes cash, time deposits, and funds receivable of $23.0 billion underlying funds receivable and customer accounts not measured and recorded at fair value.
(4) Derivative assets and liabilities are included within “prepaid expenses and other current assets” and “other assets” and “accrued expenses and other current liabilities” and “other long-term

Excludes non-marketable equity securities of $1.5 billion measured using the Measurement Alternative or equity method accounting.

Our financial assets classified within Level 1 are valued using quoted prices for identical assets in active markets. All other financial assets and liabilities are
valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in less active markets, readily available pricing sources for comparable instruments, or models using
A majority of our derivative instruments are valued using pricing models that take into account the contractual terms as well as multiple observable inputs
where applicable, such as currency rates, interest rate yield curves, option volatility, and equity prices (Level 2).

As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, we did not have any assets or liabilities requiring measurement at fair value on a recurring basis with
significant unobservable inputs that would require a high level of judgment to determine fair value (Level 3).
We elect to account for available-for-sale debt securities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries under the fair value
option. Election of the fair value option allows us to recognize any gains and losses from fair value changes on such investments in other income (expense), net
on the condensed consolidated statements of income (loss) to significantly reduce the accounting asymmetry that would otherwise arise when recognizing the
corresponding foreign exchange gains and losses relating to customer liabilities. The following table summarizes the estimated fair value and amortized cost of
our available-for-sale debt securities under the fair value option as of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024:

741

741

566

564

The following table summarizes the gains (losses) from fair value changes recognized in other income (expense), net related to the available-for-sale debt
securities under the fair value option for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024:

(7) $

The following tables summarize our assets held as of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024 for which a non-recurring fair value measurement was
recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and the year ended December 31, 2024, respectively:

2024.

We measure loans and interest receivable, held for sale that are comparable to loans receivable sold to third-party investors using observable inputs, such as the
most recent executed prices. These loans and interest receivable, held for sale are classified within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain loans and interest
receivable, held for sale are valued using significant unobservable inputs, such as adjustments to recently executed prices. These loans and interest receivable,
held for sale are classified within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Refer to “Note 11—Loans and Interest Receivable” for additional information on loans
We measure the non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the Measurement Alternative at cost minus impairment, if any, adjusted for observable
price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment in the same issuer. Non-marketable equity securities that have been remeasured
during the period based on observable price changes are classified within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy because we estimate the fair value based on
valuation methods which only include significant inputs that are observable, such as the observable transaction price at the transaction date. The fair value of
non-marketable equity securities are classified within Level 3 when we estimate fair value using significant unobservable inputs, such as when we remeasure
due to impairment and use discount rates, forecasted cash flows, and market data of comparable companies, among others.
Our financial instruments, including cash and certain cash equivalents, restricted cash, time deposits, reverse repurchase agreements, loans and interest
receivable, net, certain customer accounts, notes receivable, and long-term debt related to borrowings on our credit facilities are carried at amortized cost,
which approximates their fair value. Our term debt (including current portion) had a carrying value of approximately $10.8 billion and fair value of
approximately $10.4 billion as of September 30, 2025. Our term debt (including current portion) had a carrying value of approximately $10.5 billion and fair
value of approximately $9.8 billion as of December 31, 2024. If these financial instruments were measured at fair value in the financial statements, cash and
certain cash equivalents would be classified as Level 1; restricted cash, time deposits, reverse repurchase agreements, certain customer accounts, and term debt
(including current portion) would be classified as Level 2; and the remaining financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Our primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. Our
derivatives expose us to credit risk to the extent that our counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the arrangement. We seek to mitigate such risk by
limiting our counterparties to, and by spreading the risk across, major financial institutions and by entering into collateral security arrangements. In addition,
the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. We do not use any derivative
We have significant international revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, which subjects us to foreign exchange risk. We have a foreign
currency exposure management program in which we designate certain foreign exchange contracts, generally with maturities of 12 months or less, to reduce
the volatility of cash flows primarily related to forecasted revenues and expenses denominated in certain foreign currencies. The objective of these foreign
exchange contracts is to help mitigate the risk that the U.S. dollar-equivalent cash flows are adversely affected by changes in the applicable U.S. dollar/foreign
currency exchange rate. These derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges and accordingly, the derivative’s gain or loss is initially reported as a
component of AOCI and subsequently reclassified into revenue or the applicable expense line item in the condensed consolidated statements of income (loss)
in the same period the forecasted transaction affects earnings. We evaluate the effectiveness of our foreign exchange contracts on a quarterly basis by
comparing the critical terms of the derivative instruments with the critical terms of the forecasted cash flows of the hedged item; if the critical terms are the
same, we conclude the hedge will be perfectly effective. We do not exclude any component of the changes in fair value of the derivative instruments from the
assessment of hedge effectiveness. We report cash flows arising from derivative instruments consistent with the classification of cash flows from the underlying
items that these derivatives are hedging. Accordingly, the cash flows associated with derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are classified in cash flows

As of September 30, 2025, we estimated that $199 million of net derivative losses related to our cash flow hedges included in AOCI are expected to be
reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, we did not discontinue any cash
flow hedges because it was probable that the original forecasted transaction would not occur and as such, did not reclassify any gains or losses to earnings prior
to the occurrence of the hedged transaction. If we elect to discontinue our cash flow hedges and it is probable that the original forecasted transaction will occur,
we continue to report the derivative’s gain or loss in AOCI until the forecasted transaction affects earnings, at which point we also reclassify it into earnings.
Gains and losses on derivatives held after we discontinue our cash flow hedges and on derivative instruments that are not designated as cash flow hedges are
Prior to 2025, we used foreign exchange contracts to reduce the foreign exchange risk related to our investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. These
derivatives were designated as net investment hedges and accordingly, the gains and losses on the portion of the derivatives included in the assessment of
hedge effectiveness were recorded in AOCI as part of foreign currency translation. We excluded forward points from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and
recognized them in other income (expense), net on a straight-line basis over the life of the hedge. The accumulated gains and losses associated with these
instruments will remain in AOCI until the foreign subsidiaries are sold or substantially liquidated, at which point they will be reclassified into earnings. The
cash flows associated with derivatives designated as a net investment hedge are classified in cash flows from investing activities on our condensed consolidated
We have not reclassified any gains or losses related to net investment hedges from AOCI into earnings for any of the periods presented.
We have a foreign currency exposure management program in which we use foreign exchange contracts to offset the foreign exchange risk of our assets and
liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. These contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and
reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The gains and losses due to remeasurement
of certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, which are offset by the gains and losses on
these foreign exchange contracts. The cash flows associated with our non-designated derivatives used to hedge foreign currency denominated monetary assets
and liabilities are classified in cash flows from operating activities on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
The fair value of our outstanding derivative instruments as of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024 was as follows:
applicable requirements, we are allowed to net settle transactions of the same type with a single net amount payable by one party to the other. PayPal has not
elected to offset for balance sheet presentation and we present the derivative assets, derivative liabilities, repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase
We have entered into collateral security arrangements with certain counterparties that provide for collateral to be received or posted when the net fair value of
certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. Receivables related to cash collateral posted and payables related to cash
collateral received are recognized in other current assets and other current liabilities, respectively, on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The following tables present the derivative assets, derivative liabilities, and reverse repurchase agreements not offset on the condensed consolidated balance
sheets but available for offset in the event of default. The tables also present the cash and non-cash collateral received or pledged relating to these positions.
The amount of collateral presented is limited to the amount presented on our condensed consolidated balance sheets; therefore, instances of overcollateralization are excluded from the table below.

Condensed Consolidated Balance

Net Amounts

87
330

169
87
256

Condensed Consolidated Balance

Net Amounts

195

For derivative positions, this includes any derivative fair value that could be offset in the event of counterparty default. For reverse repurchase positions, this includes any receivable that could be
(2) Includes cash and the fair value of securities exchanged with the counterparty. For reverse repurchase agreements, these securities are not included in the condensed consolidated balance sheet
We received cash collateral from derivative counterparties totaling $7 million and $162 million as of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively, and securities from derivative
counterparties with a fair value of $35 million and $30 million as of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively. We posted $214 million and $7 million of cash collateral as of
September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively, and securities to derivative counterparties with a fair value of $50 million and nil as of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024,
respectively.
PayPal is permitted by contract to sell or repledge collateral relating to its reverse repurchase agreements. The fair value of this collateral was nil and $96 million as of September 30, 2025 and
December 31, 2024, respectively. As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, we have not sold or repledged collateral relating to reverse repurchase agreements.

We classify our loans and interest receivable based on management intent. When PayPal has the intent to sell the loans to third-party investors they are
classified as loans and interest receivable, held for sale on our condensed consolidated balance sheets and are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value,
determined on an aggregate basis, with valuation changes and any associated charge-offs recorded in restructuring and other on our condensed consolidated
statements of income (loss). In connection with the sale of certain portfolios to third-party investors and the reclassification and measurement of those
portfolios as held for sale, we reverse the previously recorded allowances for credit losses associated with those loans and interest receivable balances. We
When PayPal has the intent and ability to hold the loans for the foreseeable future they are classified as loans and interest receivable, net on our condensed
consolidated balance sheets and are reported at their outstanding balances, net of any participation interests sold, unamortized deferred origination fees and

As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, loans and interest receivable, held for sale was $1.4 billion and $541 million, respectively, and include both
loans reclassified to held for sale and loans originated as held for sale. During the nine months ended September 30, 2025 we reclassified approximately $574
million of loans and interest receivable, net to loans and interest receivable, held for sale. During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, we derecognized
loans with an unpaid balance of $18.3 billion and had net proceeds of $18.2 billion from loans and interest receivable sold. During the nine months ended
September 30, 2024, we derecognized loans with an unpaid balance of $14.8 billion and had net proceeds of $14.7 billion, from loans and interest receivable
sold.
Consumer receivables
We offer revolving and installment credit products as a funding option for consumers in certain checkout transactions on our payments platform. Our revolving
credit product consists of PayPal Credit in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), which is made available to consumers as a funding source in their PayPal wallet once
they are approved for credit. Additionally, we offer installment credit products at the time of checkout in various markets, including the U.S., several markets
across Europe, Australia, and Japan. We offer non interest-bearing installment credit products in these markets as well as interest-bearing installment credit
products in the U.S. and Germany. We purchase receivables related to interest-bearing installment loans extended to U.S. consumers by an independent
chartered financial institution (“partner institution”) and are responsible for the servicing functions related to that portfolio. During the nine months ended
September 30, 2025 and 2024, we purchased approximately $934 million and $390 million in consumer receivables, respectively. As of September 30, 2025
and December 31, 2024, the outstanding balance of consumer receivables, which consisted of revolving and installment loans and interest receivable, was $5.2
billion and $5.4 billion, respectively, net of the participation interest sold to the partner institution of $28 million and $23 million, respectively.
We closely monitor the credit quality of our consumer receivables to evaluate and manage our related exposure to credit risk. Credit risk management begins
with initial underwriting and continues through the full repayment of a loan. To assess a consumer who requests a loan, we use, among other indicators,
internally developed risk models using detailed information from external sources, such as credit bureaus where available, and internal data, including the
consumer’s prior repayment history with our credit products where available. We use delinquency status and trends to assist in making (or, for interest-bearing
installment loans in the U.S., to assist the partner institution in making) new and ongoing credit decisions, to adjust our models, to plan our collection practices
and strategies, and in determining our allowance for consumer loans and interest receivable.

The following tables present the delinquency status and gross charge-offs of consumer loans and interest receivable by year of origination. The amounts are
based on the number of days past the billing date for revolving loans or contractual repayment date for installment loans. The “current” category represents
balances that are within 29 days of the billing date or contractual repayment date, as applicable.
Revolving
Loans
Cost Basis

2,611
2,696

1,701
1,778

495
516

171
179

4,984
64
5,175

228

96.3%
1.2%
1.0%
1.5%

96.6%
1.1%
0.7%
1.6%
180
357

Beginning balances, provisions and charge-offs include amounts related to loans and interest receivable prior to their reclassification to loan and interest receivable, held for sale during the period.

The allowance for credit losses at September 30, 2025 for our consumer receivable portfolio remained consistent with the allowance for credit losses at
December 31, 2024. In the second quarter of 2025, we updated our expected credit loss model for our revolving loans in the U.K. to reflect the utilization of
average weekly earnings as a macroeconomic factor and no longer consider household disposable income and retail e-commerce sales. Additionally, we
updated our expected credit loss model for certain portfolios to utilize multiple economic scenarios rather than the single scenario previously utilized. These
changes did not have a material impact on our allowance for credit losses in the period.
Merchant receivables
We offer access to merchant finance products for certain small and medium-sized businesses through our PayPal Working Capital (“PPWC”) and PayPal
Business Loan (“PPBL”) products, which we collectively refer to as our merchant finance offerings. We purchase receivables related to credit extended to U.S.
merchants by a partner institution and are responsible for the servicing functions related to that portfolio. During the nine months ended September 30, 2025
and 2024, we purchased approximately $1.6 billion and $1.2 billion in merchant receivables, respectively. As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024,
the total outstanding balance in our pool of merchant loans, advances, and interest and fees receivable was $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion, net of the participation
interest sold to the partner institution of $62 million and $53 million, respectively.
Through our PPWC product, merchants can borrow a certain percentage of their annual payment volume processed by PayPal and are charged a fixed fee for
the loan or advance based on the overall credit assessment of the merchant. Loans and advances are repaid through a fixed percentage of the merchant’s future
payment volume that PayPal processes. Through our PPBL product, we provide merchants access to short-term business financing for a fixed fee based on an
evaluation of the applying business as well as the business owner. PPBL repayments are collected through periodic payments until the balance has been
satisfied.
The interest or fee is fixed at the time the loan or advance is extended and is recognized as deferred revenue in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on
our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The fixed interest or fee is amortized into revenues from other value added services based on the amount repaid
over the repayment period. We estimate the repayment period for PPWC based on the merchant’s payment processing history with PayPal. For PPWC, there is
a general requirement that at least 10% of the original amount of the loan or advance plus the fixed fee must be repaid every 90 days. We calculate the
repayment rate of the merchant’s future payment volume so that repayment of the loan or advance and fixed fee is expected to generally occur within 9 to 12
months from the date of the loan or advance. On a monthly basis, we recalculate the repayment period based on the repayment activity on the receivable. As
such, actual repayment periods are dependent on actual merchant payment processing volumes. For PPBL, we receive fixed periodic payments over the
contractual term of the loan, which generally ranges from 3 to 12 months.

We actively monitor receivables with repayment periods greater than the original expected or contractual repayment period, as well as the credit quality of our
merchant loans and advances that we extend or purchase, so that we can evaluate, quantify, and manage our credit risk exposure. To assess a merchant seeking
a loan or advance, we use, among other indicators, risk models developed internally which utilize information obtained from multiple internal and external data
sources to predict the likelihood of timely and satisfactory repayment by the merchant of the loan or advance amount and the related interest or fee. Primary
drivers of the models include the merchant’s annual payment volume, payment processing history with PayPal, prior repayment history with PayPal’s credit
products where available, information sourced from consumer and business credit bureau reports, and other information obtained during the application
process. We use delinquency status and trends to assist in making (or, in the U.S., to assist the partner institution in making) ongoing credit decisions, to adjust
our internal models, to plan our collection strategies, and in determining our allowance for these loans, advances, and interest and fees receivable.
The following tables present the delinquency status and gross charge-offs of merchant loans, advances, and interest and fees receivable by year of origination.
The amounts are based on the number of days past the expected or contractual repayment date for amounts outstanding. The “current” category represents
balances that are within 29 days of the expected repayment date or contractual repayment date, as applicable.

180+ Days

1,425
1,511

196

Prior

1,566
1,736

90.2%
4.3%
2.0%
3.0%
0.5%
100.0%

180+ Days

1,274
1,374

2020

Prior

1,328
1,470

156

90.4%
4.7%
2.1%
2.4%
0.4%

The following table summarizes the activity in the allowance for merchant loans, advances, and interest and fees receivable for the nine months ended
Merchant Loans
and Advances
5 $

160
(127)
104

The allowance for credit losses at September 30, 2025 for our merchant receivable portfolio was $163 million, an increase from $113 million at December 31,
2024. The increase in allowance for credit losses was related to a decline in credit quality of merchant loans outstanding primarily from modifications in
acceptable risk parameters in 2024, which included broadened eligibility. In the second quarter of 2025, we updated our expected credit loss model for all
portfolios to utilize multiple economic scenarios rather than the single scenario previously utilized. These changes did not have a material impact on our
NOTES
In March 2025, we issued fixed and floating rate notes with varying maturity dates for an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion, consisting of $450 million
aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due 2028 (the “2028 Floating Rate Notes”), $450 million aggregate principal amount of 4.450% notes due
2028 (the “2028 Notes”) and $600 million aggregate principal amount of 5.100% notes due 2035 (the “2035 Notes”). Interest on the 2028 Floating Rate Notes
is payable on March 6, June 6, September 6 and December 6 of each year, beginning on June 6, 2025. The 2028 Floating Rate Notes bear interest at a floating
rate equal to the compounded secured overnight financing rate, reset quarterly, plus 0.670% per annum. Interest on the 2028 Notes is payable on March 6 and
September 6 of each year, beginning on September 6, 2025. Interest on the 2035 Notes is payable on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on October
1, 2025.
In May 2024, June 2023, May 2022, May 2020, and September 2019, we issued fixed rate notes with varying maturity dates for an aggregate principal amount
of $1.3 billion, ¥90 billion (approximately $606 million as of September 30, 2025), $3.0 billion, $4.0 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively.
The notes issued from the March 2025, May 2024, June 2023, May 2022, May 2020, and September 2019 debt issuances are senior unsecured obligations and
are collectively referred to as the “Notes.” Except for the June 2023 debt issuance and 2028 Floating Rate Notes, we may redeem the Notes in whole at any
time or in part from time to time, prior to maturity, at their redemption prices. Upon the occurrence of both a change of control of the Company and a
downgrade of the Notes below an investment grade rating, we will be required to offer to repurchase each series of Notes at a price equal to 101% of the then
outstanding principal amounts, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Notes are subject to covenants, including limitations on our ability to create liens on our
assets, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, and merge or consolidate with another entity, in each case subject to certain exceptions, limitations, and
qualifications. Proceeds from the issuance of these Notes may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include funding the repayment or redemption
of outstanding debt, share repurchases, ongoing operations, capital expenditures, and possible acquisitions of businesses, assets, or strategic investments.

As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, we had an outstanding aggregate principal amount of $10.9 billion and $10.6 billion, respectively, related to
Maturities

2.78%
2.96%

May 2020 debt issuance:

1.78%
2.39%
3.33%

May 2022 debt issuance:

4.06%
4.53%
5.14%
5.34%

0.89%
1.06%
1.31%

155
249

147
236

May 2024 debt issuance:

5.35%
5.66%

850

850

5.22%
4.66%
5.20%

450
450
600
10,904

10,574

(79)
(155)
10,670 $

(78)
(1,191)
9,305

1,250

1,250

Principal amounts represent the U.S. dollar equivalent as of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively.
The current portion of term debt is included within “accrued expenses and other current liabilities” on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.

The effective interest rates for the Notes include interest on the Notes, amortization of debt issuance costs, and amortization of the debt discount. The interest
expense recorded for the Notes, including amortization of the debt discount and debt issuance costs, was $107 million and $315 million for the three and nine
months ended September 30, 2025, respectively. The interest expense recorded for the Notes, including amortization of the debt discount and debt issuance
costs, was $100 million and $274 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, respectively.

CREDIT FACILITIES
In February 2022, we entered into a credit agreement (the “Paidy Credit Agreement”) with Paidy as co-borrower, which provided for an unsecured revolving
credit facility of ¥60.0 billion, which was modified in September 2022 to increase the borrowing capacity by ¥30.0 billion for a total borrowing capacity of
¥90.0 billion (approximately $606 million as of September 30, 2025). As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, ¥90.0 billion (approximately
$606 million) and ¥90.0 billion (approximately $574 million) was drawn down under the Paidy Credit Agreement, respectively, which was recorded in longterm debt on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. At September 30, 2025, no borrowing capacity was available for the purposes permitted by the Paidy
Credit Agreement. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, the total interest expense and fees we recorded related to the Paidy
Credit Agreement were de minimis.
As of September 30, 2025, the future principal payments associated with our term debt were as follows (in millions):
2029
Thereafter

1,405
1,149
6,350
10,904

Other than as provided above, there were no significant changes to the information disclosed in our 2024 Form 10-K.
Overview
We are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings on an ongoing basis. Certain of these proceedings are in early stages and may seek an indeterminate
amount of damages or penalties or may require us to change or adopt certain business practices. If we believe that a loss arising from such matters is probable
and can be reasonably estimated, we accrue the estimated liability in our financial statements at that time. If only a range of estimated losses can be determined,
we accrue an amount within the range that, in our judgment, reflects the most likely outcome; if none of the estimates within that range is a better estimate than
any other amount, we accrue the low end of the range. For those proceedings in which an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible but not probable, we
have disclosed an estimate of the reasonably possible loss or range of losses or we have concluded that an estimate of the reasonably possible loss or range of
losses arising directly from the proceeding (i.e., monetary damages or amounts paid in judgment or settlement) are not material. If we cannot estimate the
probable or reasonably possible loss or range of losses arising from a legal proceeding, we have disclosed that fact. In assessing the materiality of a legal
proceeding, we evaluate, among other factors, the amount of monetary damages claimed, as well as the potential impact of non-monetary remedies sought by
plaintiffs (e.g., injunctive relief) that may require us to change our business practices in a manner that could have a material adverse impact on our business.
With respect to the matters disclosed in this Note 13, we are unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could potentially result from the

Amounts accrued for legal and regulatory proceedings for which we believe a loss is probable and reasonably estimable were not material as of September 30,
2025. Except as otherwise noted for the proceedings described in this Note 13, we have concluded, based on currently available information, that reasonably
possible losses arising directly from the proceedings (i.e., monetary damages or amounts paid in judgment or settlement) in excess of our recorded accruals are
also not material. Determining legal reserves or possible losses from such matters involves judgment and may not reflect the full range of uncertainties and
unpredictable outcomes. We may be exposed to losses in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. If any of our estimates and
assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash
flows.
Regulatory proceedings
In February 2022, we received a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) from the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) related to PayPal’s practices relating to
commercial customers that submit charges on behalf of other merchants or sellers, and related activities. In August 2025, we received an additional CID
investigating whether deceptive schemes and other unlawful activities by merchants using PayPal’s platform were facilitated or furthered by the Company’s
onboarding, due diligence, and other practices. The CIDs request the production of documents and answers to written questions, as well as other information.
We are cooperating with the FTC in connection with these CIDs.
In January 2023, we received notice of an administrative proceeding and a related request for information from the German Federal Cartel Office (“FCO”)
related to terms in PayPal (Europe) S.à.r.l. et Cie, S.C.A.’s contractual terms with merchants in Germany prohibiting surcharging and requiring parity
presentation of PayPal relative to other payment methods. We are cooperating with the FCO in connection with this proceeding.
We have received CIDs from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) related to investigation and error-resolution obligations under Regulation E,
the presentment of transactions to linked bank accounts, and related matters. The CIDs request the production of documents and answers to written questions.
We are cooperating with the CFPB in connection with these CIDs.
In August 2024, we received a CID from the CFPB related to PayPal Credit. The CID also relates to backup payment options in a digital wallet to pay for
goods or services. The CID requests the production of documents and answers to written questions. We are cooperating with the CFPB in connection with this
CID.
Legal proceedings
On October 4, 2022, a putative securities class action captioned Defined Benefit Plan of the Mid-Jersey Trucking Industry and Teamsters Local 701 Pension
and Annuity Fund v. PayPal Holdings, Inc., et al., Case No. 22-cv-5864, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. On January 11,
2023, the Court appointed Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec as lead plaintiff and renamed the action In re PayPal Holdings, Inc. Securities Litigation
(“PPH Securities Action”). On March 13, 2023, the lead plaintiff filed an amended and consolidated complaint. The PPH Securities Action asserts claims
relating to our public statements with respect to net new active accounts (“NNA”) results and guidance, and the detection of illegitimately created accounts.
The PPH Securities Action purports to be brought on behalf of purchasers of the Company’s stock between February 3, 2021 and February 1, 2022 (the “Class
Period”), and asserts claims for alleged violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act against the Company, as well as its former Chief Executive Officer,
former Chief Strategy, Growth and Data Officer, and former Chief Financial Officer (collectively, the “Individual Defendants,” and together with the Company,
“Defendants”), and for alleged violations of Sections 20(a) and 20A of the Exchange Act against the Individual Defendants. The complaint alleges that certain
public statements made by Defendants during the Class Period were rendered materially false and misleading (which, allegedly, caused the Company’s stock to
trade at artificially inflated prices) by the Defendants’ failure to disclose that, among other things, the Company’s incentive campaigns were susceptible to
fraud and led to the creation of illegitimate accounts, which allegedly affected the Company’s NNA results and guidance. The PPH Securities Action seeks
unspecified compensatory damages on behalf of the putative class members. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the PPH Securities Action. On January 29,
2025, the Court dismissed all of the claims without prejudice. On March 17, 2025, the lead plaintiff filed an amended complaint. Defendants have filed a

On November 2, 2022, a putative shareholder derivative action captioned Shah v. Daniel Schulman, et al., Case No. 22-cv-1445, was filed in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Delaware (the “Shah Action”), purportedly on behalf of the Company. On April 4, 2023, a putative shareholder derivative action
captioned Nelson v. Daniel Schulman, et. al., Case No. 23-cv-01913, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey (the “Nelson Action”)
purportedly on behalf of the Company. On January 31, 2025, a putative shareholder derivative action captioned Spathias v. Daniel Schulman, et al., Case No.
25-cv-1007, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (the “Spathias Action,” and collectively, the “Derivative Actions”). The
Derivative Actions are based on the same alleged facts and circumstances as the PPH Securities Action, and name certain of our officers, including our former
Chief Executive Officer and former Chief Financial Officer, and members of our Board of Directors, as defendants. The Derivative Actions allege claims for
breach of fiduciary duty, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, waste of corporate assets, gross mismanagement and violations of the
Exchange Act, and seek to recover damages on behalf of the Company. The Derivative Actions have been stayed pending further developments in the PPH
Securities Action.
On December 20, 2022, a civil lawsuit captioned State of Hawai‘i, by its Office of Consumer Protection, v. PayPal, Inc., and PayPal Holdings, Inc., Case No.
1CCV-22-0001610, was filed in the Circuit Court of the First Circuit of the State of Hawai‘i (the “Hawai‘i Action”). The Hawai‘i Action asserts claims for
unfair and deceptive acts and practices under Hawai‘i Revised Statutes Sections 480-2(a) and 481A-3(a). Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief as well as unspecified
penalties and other monetary relief. On July 14, 2023, the court denied Defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint. We expect to reach a final settlement in
General matters
Other third parties have from time to time claimed, and others may claim in the future, that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We are subject
to patent disputes and expect that we will increasingly be subject to additional patent infringement claims involving various aspects of our business as our
products and services continue to expand in scope and complexity. Such claims may be brought directly or indirectly against our companies and/or against our
customers (who may be entitled to contractual indemnification under their contracts with us), and we are subject to increased exposure to such claims as a
result of our acquisitions, particularly in cases where we are introducing new products or services in connection with such acquisitions. We have in the past
been forced to litigate such claims, and we believe that additional lawsuits alleging such claims will be filed against us. Intellectual property claims, whether
meritorious or not, are time-consuming and costly to defend and resolve, could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, or could require us
to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms or make substantial payments to settle claims or to satisfy damages awarded by courts.
From time to time, we are involved in other disputes or regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business, including suits by our consumers
(individually or as class actions), merchants or regulators alleging, among other things, improper disclosure of our prices, rules, or policies, that our practices,
prices, rules, policies, or user, product, business or merchant agreements violate applicable law, or that we have acted unfairly or not acted in conformity with
such prices, rules, policies, or agreements. In addition to these types of disputes and regulatory inquiries, our operations are also subject to regulatory and legal
review and challenges that may reflect the increasing global regulatory focus to which the payments industry is subject and, when taken together with other
regulatory and legislative action, such actions could result in the imposition of costly new compliance burdens on our business and customers and may lead to
increased costs and decreased transaction volume and revenue. Further, the number and significance of these disputes and inquiries are increasing as our
business has grown and expanded in scale and scope, including the number of active accounts and payments transactions on our platform, the range and
increasing complexity of the products and services that we offer, and our geographical operations. Any claims or regulatory actions against us, whether
meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, settlement payments, damage awards (including statutory damages for certain causes of
action in certain jurisdictions), fines, penalties, injunctive relief, or increased costs of doing business through adverse judgment or settlement, require us to
change our products, services, or business practices in expensive ways, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant

INDEMNIFICATION PROVISIONS
Our agreements with eBay governing our separation from eBay provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations for both eBay and us. Disputes between
eBay and us have arisen and others may arise in the future, and an adverse outcome in such matters could materially and adversely impact our business, results
of operations, and financial condition. In addition, the indemnity rights we have against eBay under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us, and our
indemnity obligations to eBay may be significant.
In the ordinary course of business, we include indemnification provisions in certain of our agreements with parties with whom we have commercial
relationships. Under these contracts, we generally indemnify, hold harmless, and agree to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the
indemnified party in connection with claims by any third party with respect to our domain names, trademarks, logos, and other branding elements to the extent
that such marks are related to the subject agreement. These indemnification provisions generally include indemnity for other types of third-party claims, which
may be related to intellectual property rights, confidentiality, willful misconduct, data privacy obligations, and certain breach of contract claims, among others.
These indemnification provisions generally also include indemnity to our payments processors in the event of card association fines against the processor
arising out of conduct by us or our customers. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these indemnification provisions due to our
limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular situation.
PayPal has participated in the U.S. Government’s Paycheck Protection Program administered by the U.S. Small Business Administration. Loans made under
this program were funded by an independent chartered financial institution that we partnered with. We received a fee for providing services in connection with
these loans and retained operational and audit risk related to those activities. We have agreed, under certain circumstances, to indemnify the chartered financial
institution and its assignee of a portion of these loans in connection with the services provided for loans made under this program.
As part of agreements to sell certain loans receivable portfolios, in certain circumstances such as breaches in loan warranties, we may be required to indemnify
the third-party investors that purchased the loans or repurchase the loans. The estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments we may be
required to make is equal to the current outstanding balances of the loans sold; however, the maximum potential amount of the indemnification is not, in our
view, representative of the expected future exposure. As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, the current outstanding balances of the loans sold was
$3.4 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively. The term of the indemnification obligations align to the maturities of the loans sold.
To date, no significant costs have been incurred, either individually or collectively, in connection with our indemnification provisions.
As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future
material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.
PROTECTION PROGRAMS
In addition to the protections afforded by applicable law, we provide consumers and merchants with protection programs for certain purchase transactions
completed on our payments platform. Our protection programs help protect both consumers and merchants from financial loss resulting from, among other
things, counterparty non-performance. These programs are designed to promote confidence on the part of both consumers, who will be reimbursed in certain
circumstances, such as not receiving their purchased item in the condition significantly as described, as well as merchants, who will receive payment in certain
circumstances, such as establishing proof of shipment or delivery of an item to the customer. These protection programs are considered assurance-type
warranties under applicable accounting standards for which we estimate associated costs within the allowance for transaction losses. Our protection programs
may result in negative customer balances when there are insufficient funds in a customer’s PayPal account to cover charges applied for merchant-related
chargebacks within the scope of our protection programs. Negative customer balances can also occur from bank returns and reversals due to insufficient
funding sources. The allowance for negative customer balances represents our estimate of current expected credit losses on negative customer balances.

44

At September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, the allowance for transaction losses was $85 million and $86 million, respectively. The allowance for negative
customer balances was $334 million and $256 million at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively. The following table shows changes in the
allowance for transaction losses and negative customer balances related to our protection programs for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025
and 2024:

Recoveries are only relevant for the allowance for negative customer balances.

During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, we repurchased approximately 63 million shares of our common stock for approximately $4.5 billion at an
average cost of $71.78, excluding excise tax. These shares were purchased in the open market under our stock repurchase program authorized in June 2022. As
of September 30, 2025, a total of approximately $355 million and $15.0 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our June
For the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, we recorded $38 million and $40 million in excise tax within treasury stock on our condensed
consolidated balance sheets. The payable associated with the excise tax is a non-cash financing activity which is not reflected on the condensed consolidated
In June 2025, our stockholders approved the authorization of an additional 15 million shares to the Amended and Restated PayPal Holdings, Inc. 2015 Equity
Stock-based compensation expense is measured based on the estimated fair value of shares at the time of grant and recognized over the award’s vesting period.
The following table summarizes the impact of stock-based compensation expense on our results of operations for the three and nine months ended

70
278

300

156
371
851

173
108
366
257
992

101

45

Our effective tax rate for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 was 19%. Our effective tax rate for both the three and nine months ended
September 30, 2024 was 23%. The difference between our effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% in the periods presented was primarily
the result of foreign income taxed at different rates, tax expense related to stock-based compensation, and other discrete tax adjustments.
The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) has published model rules, which include the implementation of a global minimum
tax rate of 15%, commonly referred to as Pillar Two. Certain countries in which we do business have enacted legislation that became effective as of January 1,
2025. Our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 includes the impact of Pillar Two minimum taxes in these jurisdictions.
On July 4, 2025, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (the “Act”) was enacted into law in the U.S., with certain provisions of the Act effective in 2025 and other
provisions becoming effective in 2026 and beyond. The provisions of the Act effective in 2025 were not material and have been reflected in our results, as
applicable.
Gross unrecognized tax benefits were approximately $2.5 billion and $2.3 billion as of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively. Due to
various factors, including uncertainties of the judicial, administrative, and regulatory processes in certain jurisdictions, the timing of the resolution of these
unrecognized tax benefits is highly uncertain. It is reasonably possible that within the next twelve months, we may receive additional tax adjustments by
various tax authorities or possibly reach resolution of audits in one or more jurisdictions. These adjustments or settlements could result in changes to our
unrecognized tax benefits related to positions on prior year tax filings. Given the number of years remaining subject to examination and the number of matters
being examined, we are unable to estimate the full range of possible adjustments to the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits.
RESTRUCTURING
The restructuring charges associated with the following plans were recorded in “restructuring and other” on our condensed consolidated statements of income.
Accrued restructuring liabilities were included in “accrued expenses and other current liabilities” on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
During the second quarter of 2025, management undertook a large-scale initiative (the “Q2 2025 Plan”) to reengineer our existing technology infrastructure to
improve scalability, reduce network latency, decrease operational costs, and optimize our workforce. The Q2 2025 Plan is a transformative unified program
designed to streamline operations and includes exiting certain data centers to migrate to more efficient cloud based solutions. The plan is expected to be
executed over a period of 18 to 42 months with the workforce component to be substantially completed in 2027 and the technology infrastructure component to
be substantially completed in 2028. The associated restructuring charges for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 were de minimis and $96
In connection with this restructuring, we expect to incur employee severance and benefits costs of approximately $90 million to $100 million, asset impairment
and accelerated depreciation charges of approximately $40 million to $60 million, and other restructuring costs of approximately $110 million to $140 million
over the term of the Q2 2025 Plan. Other restructuring costs relate to process re-engineering and one-time migration to cloud solutions and consist of contractor
costs, consulting fees, and prepaid software and maintenance costs without future economic benefit. The timing of activities and cost estimates continue to be
developed and are subject to change.

The following table summarizes the restructuring reserve activity during the nine months ended September 30, 2025:
Employee Severance

Charges
Payments

During the first quarter of 2025, management initiated a workforce reduction to ensure compliance with a new regulation impacting operations in an
international market. The associated restructuring charges during the nine months ended September 30, 2025 were $36 million and included employee
severance and benefits costs, which was completed in the third quarter of 2025.
The following table summarizes the restructuring reserve activity during the nine months ended September 30, 2025:
Employee Severance

Charges
Payments

(36)

During the first quarter of 2024, management initiated a global workforce reduction intended to streamline operations, focus resources on core strategic
priorities, and improve our cost structure. The associated restructuring charges during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024 were $36 million
and $294 million, respectively, and included employee severance and benefits costs and stock-based compensation expense, which were substantially
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, approximately $70 million and $122 million, respectively, of losses were recorded in
restructuring and other, which included net loss on sale of loans and interest receivable previously held for sale and fair value adjustments to measure loans and
interest receivable, held for sale, at the lower of cost or fair value. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, approximately $28 million and
$92 million, respectively, of losses were recorded in restructuring and other, which included net loss on sale of loans and interest receivable previously held for
sale and fair value adjustments to measure loans and interest receivable, held for sale, at the lower of cost or fair value.

Includes depreciation and amortization expense. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, total depreciation and amortization expense was $245 million and $729 million,

respectively. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, total depreciation and amortization expense was $255 million and $783 million, respectively.

There are no reconciling items or adjustments between segment net revenues, net income, total assets and consolidated net revenues, net income, and total
On October 27, 2025, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.14 per share on our common stock, totaling approximately
$130 million. The dividend will be payable on December 10, 2025, to stockholders of record of our common stock as of the close of business on November 19,
2025.

ITEM 2: MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans, or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results
of operations or financial condition, new or planned features or services, mergers or acquisitions, or management strategies). These forward-looking
statements can be identified by words such as “may,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “intend,”
“continue,” “strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,” “plan,” “project,” “forecast,” and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks
and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking
statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2024 (the “2024 Form 10-K”), as supplemented in the risk factors set forth below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10Q, as well as in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing in this report and our other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation except as required by law, to update any of our forwardlooking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results, new information, or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties,
readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. You should read the following “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that
appear in this report. Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, references to “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company,” and “PayPal”
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
THE COMPANY
At PayPal, our mission is to revolutionize commerce globally. Our products are designed to enable digital payments and simplify commerce experiences for
consumers and merchants to make selling, shopping, and sending and receiving money simple, personalized, and secure, online or offline, including mobile.
Regulatory environment
We operate globally and in a rapidly evolving regulatory environment characterized by a heightened focus by regulators globally on all aspects of the payments
industry, including anti-money laundering, countering terrorist financing, privacy, cybersecurity, and consumer protection. The laws and regulations applicable
to us, including those enacted prior to the advent of digital payments, continue to evolve through legislative and regulatory action and judicial interpretation.
New or changing laws and regulations, including changes to their interpretation and implementation, as well as increased penalties and enforcement actions
related to non-compliance, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We monitor these areas closely
and are focused on designing compliant solutions for our customers.
Cybersecurity and information security risks for global payments and technology companies like us have increased significantly in recent years. Although we
have developed systems and processes designed to protect the data we manage, prevent data loss and other security incidents, and enable us to effectively
respond to known and potential risks, and expect to continue to expend significant resources to bolster these protections, we have experienced and expect to
continue to experience cybersecurity incidents and remain subject to these risks. There can be no assurance that our security measures will provide sufficient
protection or security to prevent breaches or attacks. For additional information regarding our cybersecurity and information security risks, see Part I, Item 1A,
Risk Factors in our 2024 Form 10-K, as supplemented and, to the extent inconsistent, superseded below (if applicable) in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this
MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
A deterioration in macroeconomic conditions resulting from uncertainties and effects from tariffs, higher inflation rates, international conflicts, and higher
interest rates could continue to increase the risk of lower consumer spending, merchant and consumer bankruptcy, insolvency, business failure, higher credit
losses, foreign exchange fluctuations, or other business interruption, which may adversely impact our business. We are unable to reasonably estimate the total
potential impact on our financial results that may ultimately result from such changes in the macroeconomic environment.

Net revenues increased $570 million, or 7%, in the three months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year driven primarily by
growth in total payment volume (“TPV”) of 8% and an increase in interest and fee revenue earned on our loans receivable portfolio.
Total operating expenses increased $441 million, or 7%, in the three months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year due
Operating income increased $129 million, or 9%, in the three months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year due to the
increase in net revenues partially offset by the increase in operating expenses. Our operating margin remained consistent at 18% for both the three months
ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 reflecting the positive impact of a lower transaction expense growth rate offset by a higher transaction and credit losses
growth rate.
Net income increased $238 million, or 24%, in the three months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year due to the previously
discussed increase in operating income of $129 million and an increase in other income (expense), net of $93 million.
Net revenues increased $1.1 billion, or 5%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year driven primarily by
growth in TPV of 6% and an increase in interest and fee revenue earned on our loans receivable portfolio.
Total operating expenses increased $395 million, or 2%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year due
primarily to an increase in transaction and credit losses and sales and marketing expense partially offset by a decline in restructuring and other expenses.
Operating income increased $670 million, or 17%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year due to the
increase in net revenues partially offset by the increase in operating expenses. Our operating margin was 19% and 17% in the nine months ended September 30,
2025 and 2024, respectively, reflecting the positive impact of a lower transaction expense growth rate.

Net income increased $770 million, or 25%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year due to the previously
discussed increase in operating income of $670 million and an increase of $76 million in other income (expense), net.
We have significant international operations that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British pound, Euro, Australian dollar, and Canadian
dollar, subjecting us to foreign exchange risk which may adversely impact our financial results. The strengthening or weakening of the United States (“U.S.”)
dollar versus foreign currencies in which we conduct our international operations impacts the translation of our net revenues and expenses generated in these
foreign currencies into the U.S. dollar. We generated approximately 44% and 43% of our net revenues from customers domiciled outside of the U.S. in the
three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, respectively. We generated approximately 42% of our net revenues from customers domiciled outside of the
U.S. in both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024. Because we generate substantial net revenues internationally, we are subject to the risks of
doing business outside of the U.S. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in our 2024 Form 10-K, as supplemented and, to the extent inconsistent, superseded (if
applicable) below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q.
We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign exchange rate movements on our business using prior period foreign exchange rates applied to current period
transactional currency amounts. While changes in foreign exchange rates affect our reported results, we have a foreign currency exposure management program
in which we use foreign exchange contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, intended to reduce the impact on earnings from foreign exchange rate movements.
Gains and losses from these foreign exchange contracts are recognized as a component of transaction revenues or operating expenses (as applicable) in the
In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, year-over-year foreign exchange rate movements relative to the U.S. dollar had the following impact

Hedging impact

134 $
(69)
16 $

141
(67)
(10)

While we enter into foreign exchange contracts to help reduce the impact on earnings from foreign exchange rate movements, it is impossible to eliminate the
Prior to 2025, we used foreign exchange contracts, designated as net investment hedges, to reduce the foreign exchange risk related to our investment in certain
foreign subsidiaries. Gains and losses associated with these instruments will remain in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the underlying
foreign subsidiaries are sold or substantially liquidated.
Given that we also have foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries, we
have an additional balance sheet foreign currency exposure management program in which we use foreign exchange contracts to help offset the impact of
foreign exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign exchange gains and losses on our assets and liabilities are recorded in other income
(expense), net, and are offset by the gains and losses on the foreign exchange contracts. These foreign exchange contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate,
Additionally, in connection with transactions occurring in multiple currencies on our payments platform, we generally set our foreign exchange rates daily and
may face financial exposure if we incorrectly set our foreign exchange rates or as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the times that we
set our foreign exchange rates and when transactions occur. While we have processes in place to mitigate these risks, it is impossible to eliminate the total
effects of any possible exposure associated with setting foreign exchange rates on our payments platform.

KEY METRICS
TPV, number of payment transactions, active accounts, and number of payment transactions per active account are key non-financial performance metrics
(“key metrics”) that management uses to measure the scale of our platform and the relevance of our products and services to our customers, and are defined as
follows:

TPV is the value of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed on our payments platform or enabled by PayPal via a partner payment

Number of payment transactions is the total number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed on our payments platform or
enabled by PayPal via a partner payment solution, not including gateway-exclusive transactions.

An active account is an account registered directly with PayPal or a platform access partner that has completed a transaction on our platform, not
including gateway-exclusive transactions, within the past 12 months. A platform access partner is a third party whose customers are provided access to
PayPal’s platform or services through such third-party’s login credentials, including individuals and entities that utilize Hyperwallet’s payout
capabilities. A user may register on our platform to access different products and may register more than one account to access a product. Accordingly,
a user may have more than one active account. The number of active accounts provides management with additional perspective on the overall scale
of our platform, but may not have a direct relationship to our operating results.

Number of payment transactions per active account reflects the total number of payment transactions within the previous 12-month period, divided by
active accounts at the end of the period. The number of payment transactions per active account provides management with insight into the average
number of times an account engages in payments activity on our payments platform in a given period. The number of times a consumer account or a
merchant account transacts on our platform may vary significantly from the average number of payment transactions per active account.

As our transaction revenue growth is typically correlated with TPV growth and the number of payment transactions completed on our payments platform,
management uses these metrics to gain insights into the scale and strength of our payments platform, the engagement level of our customers, and underlying
activity and trends which may be indicators of current and future performance. We present these key metrics to enhance investors’ evaluation of the
Our key metrics are calculated using internal company data based on the activity we measure on our payments platform and compiled from multiple systems,
including systems that are internally developed or acquired through business combinations. While the measurement of our key metrics is based on what we
believe to be reasonable methodologies and estimates, there are inherent challenges and limitations in measuring our key metrics globally at scale. The
methodologies used to calculate our key metrics require significant judgment. We regularly review our processes for calculating these key metrics, and from
time to time we may make adjustments to improve the accuracy or relevance of our metrics. For example, we continuously apply models, processes, and
practices designed to detect and prevent fraudulent account creation on our platforms, and work to improve and enhance those capabilities. When we detect a
significant volume of illegitimate activity, we generally remove the activity identified from our key metrics. Although such adjustments may impact key
metrics reported in prior periods, we generally do not update previously reported key metrics to reflect these subsequent adjustments unless the retrospective
impact of process improvements or enhancements is determined by management to be material.

Our revenues are classified into the following two categories:

Transaction revenues: Net transaction fees charged to merchants and consumers on a transaction basis based on the TPV completed on our payments
platform. Growth in TPV is directly impacted by the number of payment transactions that we enable on our payments platform. We generate
additional revenue from merchants and consumers: on transactions where we perform currency conversion, when we enable cross-border transactions
(i.e., transactions where the merchant and consumer are in different countries), to facilitate the instant transfer of funds for our customers from their
PayPal or Venmo account to their bank account or debit card, to facilitate the purchase and sale of cryptocurrencies, as contractual compensation from
sellers that violate our contractual terms (for example, through fraud or counterfeiting), and other miscellaneous fees.

Revenues from other value added services: Net revenues derived primarily from revenue earned through partnerships, referral fees, subscription fees,
gateway fees, and other services we provide to our consumers and merchants. We also earn revenues from interest and fees earned on our portfolio of

The components of our net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were as follows (in millions):

53

Transaction revenues
Transaction revenues increased $455 million, or 6%, and $725 million, or 3%, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same
periods of the prior year. The increase in the three months ended September 30, 2025 was driven primarily by an increase of approximately $390 million in
revenue from PayPal and Venmo products and services, which was largely driven by growth in TPV and number of payment transactions, and an increase in
revenue from Braintree products and services of approximately $115 million predominantly attributable to growth in TPV despite a decline in the number of
payment transactions over the same period. The increase in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 was primarily attributable to an increase of
approximately $1.0 billion in revenue from PayPal and Venmo products and services, which was largely driven by growth in TPV and number of payment
transactions, partially offset by a decline in revenue from Braintree products and services of approximately $140 million resulting from a reduction in number
of payment transactions. The increase in TPV for Braintree products and services despite a decline in the number of payment transactions is due to our strategic
shift as we focus on profitable growth. Transaction revenues in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 were also impacted by an unfavorable
As a result of our stronger focus on profitable growth and ongoing negotiations with merchants, we experienced lower volume and transaction revenue from
our Braintree offerings in the first half of 2025. As noted above, in the third quarter of 2025, revenue and TPV from Braintree offerings grew year-over-year. In
the fourth quarter of 2025, we expect volume from our Braintree offerings to continue to grow.
The graphs below present the respective key metrics (in millions) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024:

54

TPV

57.6

61.4

(6)%

57.6

61.4

(6)%

Cross-border TPV occurs primarily between two PayPal accounts in different countries and includes transactions initiated through our Xoom product.

We had active accounts of 438 million and 432 million as of September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, an increase of 1%. Our total number of payment
transactions was 6.3 billion and 6.6 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, a decrease of 5%. Our total number of
payment transactions was 18.6 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to 19.7 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2024, a
decrease of 6%. TPV was $458 billion and $423 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, an increase of 8%. TPV was
$1.3 trillion for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to $1.2 trillion in the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of 6%.
Transaction revenues growth was lower than the growth in TPV in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same periods in the
prior year due primarily to changes in product mix and unfavorable impact from foreign exchange hedging activities.
Revenues from other value added services increased $115 million, or 15%, and $340 million, or 16%, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025
compared to the same periods in the prior year due primarily to an increase of approximately $65 million and $220 million, respectively, in interest and fee
revenue earned from our loans receivable portfolios as well as an increase of approximately $50 million and $100 million, respectively, from revenue earned
from an independent chartered financial institution (“partner institution”). Revenue from the partner institution is earned primarily through revenue share
associated with our U.S. revolving consumer credit product and PayPal and Venmo branded credit cards.

OPERATING EXPENSES
The following table summarizes our operating expenses and related metrics we use to assess the trends in each:

483

0.89 %
0.11 %

0.91 %
0.08 %

6% $
37 %
3%
7%
(1)%
10 %
7% $

0.89 %
0.10 %

0.94 %
0.08 %

—%
32 %
(4)%
16 %
(5)%
(35)%
2%

Transaction expense rate is calculated by dividing transaction expense by TPV.
Transaction and credit loss rate is calculated by dividing transaction and credit losses by TPV.

Transaction expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 was as follows (in millions):

Transaction expense increased $222 million, or 6%, and stayed relatively consistent, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the
same periods of the prior year. The increase in transaction expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 was primarily attributable to the
increase in TPV of 8% and 6%, respectively, partially offset by favorable changes in merchant mix to lower cost merchants within our Braintree products and
services. The decline in transaction expense rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same periods of the prior year was
primarily attributable to a lower proportion of TPV from Braintree products and services and changes in merchant mix.
Our transaction expense rate is impacted by changes in product mix, merchant mix, regional mix, funding mix, and fees paid to payment processors and other
financial institutions. The cost of funding a transaction with a credit or debit card is generally higher than the cost of funding a transaction from a bank or
through internal sources such as a PayPal or Venmo account balance or our consumer credit products. The cost of funding a transaction is also impacted by the
geographic region or country in which a transaction occurs, as we generally pay lower rates for transactions funded with credit or debit cards outside the U.S.
For the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, approximately 38% and 37%, respectively, of TPV was generated outside of the U.S. For the nine
months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, approximately 37% and 36%, respectively, of TPV was generated outside of the U.S.

56

The components of our transaction and credit losses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were as follows (in millions):

Transaction and credit losses increased $131 million, or 37%, and $322 million, or 32%, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to
Transaction losses increased $133 million, or 50%, and $275 million, or 35%, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same
periods of the prior year. Transaction loss rate (transaction losses divided by TPV) was 0.09% and 0.08% for the three and nine months ended September 30,
2025, respectively, compared to 0.06% for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024. The increase in transaction losses and the associated
transaction loss rate in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same periods of the prior year was primarily due to an increase in
Credit losses decreased $2 million and increased $47 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, respectively, compared to the same
periods of the prior year. The components of credit losses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were as follows (in millions):
2025(3)

Credit losses

90 $
86 $

2025(3)

272

295
(70)

Net charge-offs includes principal charge-offs partially offset by recoveries for consumer and merchant receivables.
Reserve build (release) represents change in allowance for principal receivables excluding foreign currency remeasurement.
Includes the reversal of allowance associated with reclassification of certain loans receivable to held for sale.

Credit losses in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 were primarily attributable to loan originations during the period, partially offset by the
reclassification of certain loans to held for sale. Credit losses in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024 were attributable to loan originations
during the period partially offset by improvement in the credit quality of loans outstanding.

We have entered into forward flow arrangements with third-party investors to sell certain loans receivable portfolios. As of September 30, 2025 and 2024, loans
and interest receivable, held for sale was $1.4 billion and $471 million, respectively. In third quarter of 2025, we reclassified $574 million of U.S. consumer
The consumer loans and interest receivable balance as of September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $5.2 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, net of participation
interest sold, representing an increase of 1%. The increase was driven primarily by growth of our installment credit products in the U.S. and Japan of
approximately $225 million and $190 million, respectively, and an increase in our revolving credit product in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) of approximately
$160 million. The consumer loans and interest receivable balance was also impacted by the reclassification of our U.S. short-term, non-interest bearing
The following table provides information regarding the credit quality of our consumer loans and interest receivable balance:

96.3 %
1.5 %
4.5 %

95.9 %
1.7 %
4.6 %

Represents percentage of balances which are 90 days past the billing date or contractual repayment date, as applicable.
Net charge-off rate is the annualized ratio of net credit losses during the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, excluding fraud losses, on consumer loans as a percentage of the average
daily amount of consumer loans and interest receivable balance during the same period.

In response to changing portfolio performance and macroeconomic environment, we continue to monitor risk and evaluate and modify our acceptable risk
parameters. Modifications to the acceptable risk parameters did not have a material impact on our consumer loans for the three and nine months ended
We offer access to merchant finance products for certain small and medium-sized businesses, which we refer to as our merchant finance offerings. Total
merchant loans, advances, and interest and fees receivable outstanding, net of participation interest sold, as of September 30, 2025 and 2024 was $1.7 billion
and $1.4 billion, respectively, reflecting an increase of 28%. The increase was due primarily to growth in our PayPal Business Loans product in the U.S. of
approximately $250 million and growth in our PayPal Working Capital product portfolio, primarily from Germany, the U.S., and the U.K., of approximately
$130 million.
The following table provides information regarding the credit quality of our merchant loans, advances, and interest and fees receivable balance:

Percent of merchant loans, advances, and interest and fees receivable > 90 days outstanding(1)

90.2 %
3.5 %
7.3 %

91.3 %
2.8 %
8.3 %

Represents percentage of balances which are 90 days past the original expected or contractual repayment period, as applicable.

(2) Net charge-off rate is the annualized ratio of net credit losses during the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, excluding fraud losses, on merchant loans and advances as a percentage

of the average daily amount of merchant loans, advances, and interest and fees receivable balance during the same period.

In response to changing portfolio performance and macroeconomic environment, we continue to monitor risk and evaluate and modify our acceptable risk
parameters. Modifications to the acceptable risk parameters did not have a material impact on our merchant loans for the three and nine months ended
For additional information, see “Note 11—Loans and Interest Receivable” in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of

58

Customer support and operations expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were as follows (in millions):

Customer support and operations expenses increased $20 million, or 5%, and decreased $59 million, or 4%, in the three and nine months ended September 30,
2025 compared to the same periods of the prior year. The increase in the three months ended September 30, 2025 was due primarily to an increase in other
operating charges, partially offset by a decline in employee-related costs and software expenses. The decrease in the nine months ended September 30, 2025
was primarily attributable to a decline in employee-related costs and software expenses, partially offset by an increase in other operating charges.
Sales and marketing expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were as follows (in millions):

Sales and marketing expenses increased $13 million, or 3%, and $217 million, or 16%, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to
the same periods of the prior year. The increase in the three months ended September 30, 2025 was due primarily to higher spend on marketing and brand
advertising, including our Venmo Everything advertising campaign, partially offset by lower costs associated with Honey rewards programs. The increase in
the nine months ended September 30, 2025 was primarily due to higher spend of approximately $265 million on marketing and brand advertising, including
our PayPal Everywhere and Venmo Everything advertising campaigns, partially offset by lower employee-related costs and lower costs associated with Honey
rewards programs.

Technology and development expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were as follows (in millions):

Technology and development expenses increased $55 million, or 7%, and $93 million, or 4%, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025
compared to the same periods of the prior year due primarily to increases in contractor and consultant costs, costs from cloud computing services utilized in
delivering our products and services, and software maintenance costs. Technology and development expenses in the nine months ended September 30, 2025
were also impacted by an increase in employee-related costs, partially offset by a decline in depreciation and amortization expense.
General and administrative expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were as follows (in millions):

General and administrative expenses decreased $6 million, or 1%, and $76 million, or 5%, in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared
to the same periods of the prior year. The decrease in the three months ended September 30, 2025 was due primarily to a decline in employee-related costs,
partially offset by an increase in indirect tax expense. The decrease in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 was primarily attributable to declines in
employee-related costs, indirect tax expense, and contingency reserve compared to the prior period, partially offset by increases in professional services

Restructuring and other for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were as follows (in millions):

Restructuring and other increased $6 million and decreased $137 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, respectively, compared to the
During the second quarter of 2025, management undertook a large-scale initiative (the “Q2 2025 Plan”) to reengineer our existing technology infrastructure to
improve scalability, reduce network latency, decrease operational costs, and optimize our workforce. The Q2 2025 Plan is a transformative unified program
designed to streamline operations and includes exiting certain data centers to migrate to more efficient cloud-based solutions. The plan is expected to be
executed over a period of 18 to 42 months with the workforce component to be substantially completed in 2027 and the technology infrastructure component to
be substantially completed in 2028. The associated restructuring charges during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 were de minimis and $96
In connection with this restructuring, we expect to incur employee severance and benefits costs of approximately $90 million to $100 million, asset impairment
and accelerated depreciation charges of approximately $40 million to $60 million, and other restructuring costs of approximately $110 million to $140 million
over the term of the Q2 2025 Plan. Other restructuring costs relate to process re-engineering and one-time migration to cloud solutions and consist of contractor
costs, consulting fees, and prepaid software and maintenance costs without future economic benefit. We expect annualized cost savings of approximately $280
million associated with the impacted workforce, including stock-based compensation, and operational costs for our technology infrastructure. We expect that
we will begin to realize these cost savings upon the completion of the components of the Q2 2025 Plan, and also expect to reinvest a portion of the reduction in
annual costs to drive business priorities. The timing of activities, cost, and savings estimates continue to be developed and are subject to change.
During the first quarter of 2025, management initiated a workforce reduction to ensure compliance with a new regulation impacting operations in an
international market. The associated restructuring charges during the nine months ended September 30, 2025 were $36 million and included employee
severance and benefits costs, which were completed in the third quarter of 2025. We do not anticipate cost savings in conjunction with this reduction.
For information on the associated restructuring liabilities, see “Note 17—Restructuring and Other” in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial
During the first quarter of 2024, management initiated a global workforce reduction intended to streamline operations, focus resources on core strategic
priorities, and improve our cost structure. The associated restructuring charges during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024 were $36 million
and $294 million, respectively, and included employee severance and benefits costs and stock-based compensation expense, which were substantially
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, approximately $70 million and $122 million, respectively, of losses were recorded in
restructuring and other, which included net loss on sale of loans and interest receivable previously held for sale and fair value adjustments to measure loans and
interest receivable, held for sale, at the lower of cost or fair value. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, approximately $28 million and
$92 million, respectively, of losses were recorded in restructuring and other, which included net loss on sale of loans and interest receivable previously held for
sale and fair value adjustments to measure loans and interest receivable, held for sale, at the lower of cost or fair value.

61

Other income (expense), net increased $93 million and $76 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same periods of
the prior year due primarily to net gains on strategic investments in the current periods compared to net losses and impairments in the prior periods, which
contributed increases of approximately $180 million and $295 million, respectively, partially offset by declines in interest income of approximately $65 million
and $115 million, respectively, resulting from lower average cash and investment balances year-over-year and lower interest rates. The nine months ended
September 30, 2025 was also unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange losses in the current period compared to foreign exchange gains in the prior period
and an increase in interest expense due to incremental expense from the March 2025 and May 2024 debt issuances.
Our effective income tax rate was 19% and 23% for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The decrease in our effective tax rate
for the three months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year was due primarily to the impact of foreign income taxed at
Our effective income tax rate was 19% and 23% for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The decrease in our effective income
tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year was due primarily to discrete tax adjustments including
tax effects of stock-based compensation, partially offset by the impact of foreign income taxed at different rates.
We require liquidity and access to capital to fund our global operations, including our customer protection programs, credit products, capital expenditures,
investments in our business, potential acquisitions and strategic investments, stock repurchases and dividend payments, working capital, and other cash needs.
We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments, cash expected to be generated from operations, and our expected access to capital
markets, together with potential external funding through third-party sources, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements within the next 12 months and
beyond.
The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, and investments as of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024:

12,759

13,947

Excludes assets related to funds receivable and customer accounts of $38.7 billion and $37.7 billion at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively.

Excludes total restricted cash of nil and $1 million at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively, and strategic investments of $1.6 billion at both September 30, 2025 and

Cash, cash equivalents, and investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were $7.1 billion and $8.5 billion at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, or
56% and 61% of our total cash, cash equivalents, and investments as of those respective dates. At December 31, 2024, all of our cash, cash equivalents, and
investments held by foreign subsidiaries were subject to U.S. taxation under Subpart F, Global Intangible Low Taxed Income or the one-time transition tax
under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Subsequent repatriations to the U.S. will not be taxable from a U.S. federal tax perspective except for any tax on
foreign exchange gains and losses; however, they may be subject to state income or foreign withholding tax.
A significant aspect of our global cash management activities involves meeting our customers’ requirements to access their cash while simultaneously meeting
our regulatory financial ratio commitments in various jurisdictions. Our global cash balances are required not only to provide operational liquidity to our
businesses, but also to support our global regulatory requirements across our regulated subsidiaries. Accordingly, not all of our cash is available for general
corporate purposes.

Cash flows

Operating activities
Investing activities
Financing activities

4,032 $
1,095
(4,009)
1,363 $

(768)
(4,691)
(300)

Operating activities
Net cash provided by operating activities declined $1.0 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year due
primarily to changes in working capital of approximately $920 million driven primarily by a decline in current liabilities and an increase in actual cash
transaction losses incurred during the period, an increase of approximately $870 million in originations of loans and interest receivable held for sale, net of
sales and repayments, and an impact of approximately $300 million from net gains on strategic investments, partially offset by an increase of approximately
$320 million in transaction and credit losses, and a decrease of $210 million in the accretion of discounts on investments, net of amortization premiums.
In both the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, cash paid for income taxes, net was $1.0 billion.
Investing activities
Net cash provided by investing activities increased $1.9 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year due
primarily to an increase of approximately $2.7 billion in maturities and sales, net of purchases of investments, and an increase of approximately $700 million in
principal repayments of loans receivable, net of purchases and originations, partially offset by changes related to funds receivable of approximately $1.4
billion.
Financing activities
Net cash used in financing activities decreased $682 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period of the prior year due
primarily to cash inflows of approximately $1.4 billion from changes related to funds payable and amounts due to customers partially offset by a decline of
Foreign currency exchange rates had a positive impact of $245 million and $103 million on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash for the nine months
ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The positive impact on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash in the nine months ended September 30,
2025 was due primarily to favorable fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to the British pound and, to a lesser extent, the Euro and Australian
dollar. The positive impact on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash in the nine months ended September 30, 2024 was due primarily to the favorable
impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to the British pound.
In March 2025, we issued fixed rate and floating rate notes with varying maturity dates for an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion. Proceeds from the
issuance of these Notes may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include funding the repayment or redemption of outstanding debt, share
repurchases, ongoing operations, capital expenditures, and possible acquisitions of businesses, assets, or strategic investments. As of September 30, 2025, we
had an aggregate principal amount of $10.9 billion in debt outstanding with varying maturity dates.

Other than as described above, there were no significant changes to the available credit and debt disclosed in our 2024 Form 10‑K. For additional information,
see “Note 12—Debt” in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
Depending on market conditions, we may from time to time issue debt, including in private or public offerings, to fund our operating activities, finance
acquisitions, make strategic investments, repurchase shares under our stock repurchase program, or reduce our cost of capital.
Credit ratings
As of September 30, 2025, we continue to be rated investment grade by Standard and Poor’s Financial Services, LLC, Fitch Ratings, Inc., and Moody’s
Investors Services, Inc. We expect that these credit rating agencies will continue to monitor our performance, including our capital structure and results of
operations. Our goal is to be rated investment grade, but as circumstances change, there are factors that could result in our credit ratings being downgraded or
put on a watch list for possible downgrading. If that were to occur, it could increase our borrowing rates, including the interest rate on borrowings under our
credit agreements.
Our material cash requirements include funds to support current and potential: operating activities, credit products, customer protection programs, stock
repurchases, dividend payments, strategic investments, acquisitions, other commitments, capital expenditures, and other future obligations.
Credit products
Growth in our portfolio of loans receivable increases our liquidity needs and any inability to meet those liquidity needs could adversely affect our business. We
continue to evaluate partnerships and third-party sources of funding for our credit products.
The Luxembourg Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (the “CSSF”) has agreed that PayPal’s management may designate up to 50% of European
customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary to fund European, U.K., and U.S. credit activities. As of September 30, 2025 and December 31,
2024, the cumulative amount approved by PayPal to be designated to fund credit activities was $2.0 billion as of those respective dates and represented
approximately 26% of European customer balances made available for our corporate use as of those respective dates, as determined by applying financial
regulations maintained by the CSSF. We may periodically seek to change the designation of amounts of European customer balances for our credit activities, as
we deem necessary, based on utilization of the approved funds and anticipated credit funding requirements. Under certain exceptional circumstances, corporate
liquidity could be called upon to meet our obligations related to our European customer balances.
We have entered into forward flow arrangements with third-party investors to sell certain loans receivable portfolios. In the third quarter of 2025, we entered
into an arrangement with a third-party which has a duration of two years and up to $7.0 billion of loans receivable sales over the term. During the nine months
ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, we had net proceeds of $18.2 billion and $14.7 billion, respectively, from loans and interest receivable sold. See “Note 11
—Loans and Interest Receivable” in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional
information.
While our objective is to expand the availability of our credit products with capital from external sources, there can be no assurance that we will be successful
The risk of losses from our customer protection programs are specific to individual consumers, merchants, and transactions, and may also be impacted by
regional variations in, and changes or modifications to, the programs, including as a result of changes in regulatory requirements. For the periods presented in
these condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report, our transaction loss rate ranged between 0.06% and 0.09% of TPV. Historical loss
rates may not be indicative of future results.

64

Stock repurchases
During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, we repurchased approximately $4.5 billion of our common stock in the open market under our stock
repurchase program authorized in June 2022. As of September 30, 2025, a total of approximately $355 million and $15.0 billion remained available for future
repurchases of our common stock under our June 2022 and February 2025 stock repurchase programs, respectively.
On October 28, 2025, we announced that our Board of Directors approved the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend program and declared a cash dividend of
$0.14 per share on our common stock, totaling approximately $130 million. The dividend will be payable on December 10, 2025, to stockholders of record of
our common stock as of the close of business on November 19, 2025. Dividend payments in future quarters will be subject to and contingent upon market
Other considerations
Our liquidity, access to capital, and borrowing costs could be adversely impacted by declines in our credit rating, our financial performance, and global credit
market conditions, as well as a broad range of other factors. In addition, our liquidity, access to capital, and borrowing costs could also be negatively impacted
by the outcome of any of the legal or regulatory proceedings to which we are a party. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of our 2024 Form 10-K, as
supplemented and, to the extent inconsistent, superseded below in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q, as well as “Note 13—Commitments and
Contingencies” in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional discussion of these

65

Market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as
interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and equity investment risk. Management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our investing,
funding, and foreign exchange derivative activities intended to mitigate market risks. We monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis.
We are exposed to interest rate risk relating to our investment portfolio, from interest-rate sensitive assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our
condensed consolidated balance sheets as customer accounts, and a portion of our debt.
As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, approximately 70% and 48%, respectively, of our total cash, cash equivalents, and investment portfolio
(excluding restricted cash and strategic investments) was held in cash and cash equivalents. The remaining portfolio and assets underlying the customer
balances that we hold on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as customer accounts are maintained in interest and non-interest bearing bank deposits,
time deposits, and available-for-sale debt securities. We seek to preserve principal while holding eligible liquid assets, as defined by applicable regulatory
requirements and commercial law in certain jurisdictions where we operate, equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of all customer balances. We do not
Interest rate movements affect the interest income we earn on cash and cash equivalents, time deposits, and available-for-sale debt securities and the fair value
of those securities. A hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our cash equivalents and
available-for-sale debt securities investment by approximately $139 million and $101 million at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively.
Changes in the fair value of our available-for-sale debt securities resulting from such interest rate changes are reported as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income (“AOCI”) and are realized only if we sell the securities prior to their scheduled maturities or the declines in fair values are due to
As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, we had an aggregate principal amount of $10.5 billion and $10.6 billion, respectively, in fixed rate debt
with varying maturity dates. Since these notes bear interest at fixed rates, they do not result in any financial statement risk associated with changes in interest
rates. However, the fair value of these notes fluctuates when interest rates change, increasing in periods of declining interest rates and declining in periods of
increasing interest rates. As of September 30, 2025, we had an aggregate principal amount of $450 million in floating rate debt with a maturity date of March 6,
2028. A hypothetical 100 basis points increase in market interest rates would not have resulted in a material impact to interest expense recorded in the three and
As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, we also had revolving credit facilities of approximately $5.6 billion available to us. We are obligated to pay
interest on borrowings under these facilities as well as other customary fees, including an upfront fee and an unused commitment fee based on our debt rating.
Borrowings under these facilities, if any, bear interest at floating rates. As a result, we are exposed to the risk related to fluctuations in interest rates to the
extent of our borrowings. As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, ¥90.0 billion (approximately $606 million) and ¥90.0 billion (approximately
$574 million), respectively, was outstanding under these facilities. A 100 basis points hypothetical adverse change in applicable market interest rates would not
have resulted in a material impact to interest expense recorded in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025. For additional information, see “Note
12—Debt” in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
Interest rates may also adversely impact our customers’ spending levels and ability and willingness to pay outstanding amounts owed to us. Higher interest
rates often lead to larger payment obligations by customers of our credit products to us, or to lenders under mortgage, credit card, and other consumer and
merchant loans, which may reduce our customers’ ability to remain current on their obligations to us and therefore lead to increased delinquencies, charge-offs,
and allowances for loans and interest receivable, which could have an adverse effect on our net income (loss).

We have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British pound, Euro, Australian dollar, and Canadian
dollar, which subject us to foreign exchange risk and may adversely impact our financial results. We transact in various foreign currencies and have significant
international revenues and expenses. In addition, we charge our international subsidiaries for their use of intellectual property and technology and for certain
corporate services. Our cash flows, results of operations, and certain of our intercompany balances that are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations may
differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses due to foreign currency fluctuations and related hedging activities. We are
generally a net receiver of foreign currencies and therefore benefit from a weakening of the United States (“U.S.”) dollar and are adversely affected by a
strengthening of the U.S. dollar, relative to foreign currencies. We considered the historical trends in foreign exchange rates and determined that it was
reasonably possible that changes in exchange rates of 10% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term.
We have a foreign currency exposure management program designed to identify material foreign currency exposures, manage these exposures, and reduce the
potential effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated cash flows and results of operations through the execution of foreign exchange contracts. These
foreign exchange contracts are accounted for as derivative instruments; for additional details related to our foreign exchange contracts, please see “Note 10—
Derivative Instruments” in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
We use foreign exchange contracts to protect our forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings and our investment in foreign subsidiaries from adverse changes in
foreign exchange rates. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of adverse foreign exchange rate movements. We designate
these contracts as cash flow hedges of forecasted revenues and expenses denominated in certain foreign currencies and net investment hedges for accounting
purposes. The derivative’s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of AOCI. Cash flow hedges are subsequently reclassified into revenue or expense in
the same period the forecasted transaction affects earnings. The accumulated gains and losses associated with net investment hedges will remain in AOCI until
the foreign subsidiaries are sold or substantially liquidated, at which point they will be reclassified into earnings.
If the U.S. dollar weakened by a hypothetical 10% at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, the amount recorded in AOCI related to our foreign
exchange contracts, before taxes, would have been approximately $462 million and $380 million lower, respectively, before considering the offsetting impact
We have an additional balance sheet foreign exchange management program in which we use foreign exchange contracts to help offset the foreign exchange
risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. These contracts are not designated as hedging
instruments and reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign exchange gains
and losses on our assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, and are offset by the gains and losses on the foreign exchange contracts.
Adverse changes in exchange rates of a hypothetical 10% for all foreign currencies would have resulted in a negative impact on income before income taxes of
approximately $490 million and $470 million at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively, without considering the offsetting effect of foreign
exchange contracts. Foreign exchange contracts in place as of September 30, 2025 would have positively impacted income before income taxes by
approximately $472 million, resulting in a net negative impact of approximately $18 million. Foreign exchange contracts in place as of December 31, 2024
would have positively impacted income before income taxes by approximately $445 million, resulting in a net negative impact of approximately $25 million.
These reasonably possible adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% were applied to monetary assets, monetary liabilities, and available-for-sale debt
securities denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries at the balance sheet dates to compute the adverse impact these
changes would have had on our income before income taxes in the near term.

67

Our strategic investments are subject to a variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the carrying value of the portfolio. As of
both September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, our strategic investments totaled $1.6 billion and represented approximately 11% and 10% of our total cash,
cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investment portfolio at those respective dates. Our strategic investments include marketable equity securities,
which are publicly traded, and non-marketable equity securities, which are primarily investments in privately held companies. We are required to record all
adjustments to the value of these strategic investments through our condensed consolidated statements of income (loss). As such, we expect volatility to our net
income (loss) in future periods due to changes in observable prices and impairment related to our non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the
Measurement Alternative. These changes could be material based on market conditions. Additionally, the financial success of our investments in privately held
companies is typically dependent on a liquidity event, such as a public offering, acquisition, private sale, or other favorable market event providing the ability
to realize appreciation in the value of the investment. A hypothetical adverse change of 10% in the carrying value of our strategic investments as of
September 30, 2025, which could be experienced in the near term, would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $160 million to the carrying value of the
portfolio. We review our non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the Measurement Alternative for impairment when events and circumstances
indicate a decline in fair value of such assets below carrying value. Our analysis includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent purchases and
sales of securities, and other publicly available data, for which we assess factors such as the investees’ financial condition and business outlook, industry
performance, regulatory, economic, or technological environment, and other relevant events and factors affecting the investees.

(a) Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act), our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer have
concluded that as of September 30, 2025, the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
(b) Changes in internal controls over financial reporting. There were no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting as defined in the Exchange
Act Rule 13a-15(f) that occurred during our most recently completed fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect,

68

The information set forth under “Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation and Regulatory Matters” in the notes to the condensed consolidated
financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.

We are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, future results, and the
trading price of our common stock. You should read carefully the following information together with the information appearing in Part I, Item 1A, Risk
Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 as filed with the United States (“U.S.”) Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) on February 4, 2025 (“2024 Form 10-K”) as updated by the information appearing in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in our subsequent
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC (“Forms 10-Q”). The following information supplements and, to the extent inconsistent, supersedes
some of the information appearing in the Risk Factors section of our 2024 Form 10‑K and Forms 10-Q. These risk factors, as well as our condensed
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the other information appearing in this report, should be reviewed carefully for important information
Business interruptions or systems failures may impair the availability of our websites, applications, products or services, or otherwise harm our business.
Our systems and operations and those of our service providers and partners have experienced from time to time, and may experience in the future, business
interruptions or degradation of service because of distributed denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, insider threats, hardware and software defects or
malfunctions, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, and other natural disasters, public health crises (including pandemics), power losses,
disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. The
frequency and intensity of weather events related to climate change are increasing, which could increase the likelihood and severity of such disasters as well as
related damage and business interruption. Our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a seismically active region in California. A
catastrophic event that could lead to a disruption or failure of our systems or operations could result in significant losses and require substantial recovery time
and significant expenditures to resume or maintain operations. Further, some of our systems, including those of companies that we have acquired, are not fully
redundant and any failure of these acquired systems, including due to a catastrophic event, may lead to operational outages or delays. While we engage in
disaster recovery planning and testing intended to mitigate risks from outages or delays, our planning and testing may not be effective or sufficient for all
possible outcomes or events. As a provider of payments solutions, we are also subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators that may require specific business
continuity, resiliency and disaster recovery plans, and rigorous testing of such plans, which may be costly and time-consuming to implement, and may divert
our resources from other business priorities. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of
operations.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, system failures, cyberattacks, unplanned outages, and other events or conditions from time to time
that have and may interrupt the availability, or reduce or adversely affect the speed or functionality, of our products and services. While we continue to
undertake system upgrades and re-platforming efforts designed to improve the availability, reliability, resiliency, and speed of our payments platform, these
efforts are costly and time-consuming, involve significant technical complexity and risk, may divert our resources from new features and products, and may
ultimately not be effective. A prolonged interruption of, or reduction in, the availability, speed, or functionality of our products and services could materially
harm our business and financial condition. For example, in August 2025, PayPal experienced a temporary service disruption triggered by a coding error in a
system update, which primarily impacted a limited number of customers and partners in Germany. In connection with this disruption, we experienced some
fraudulent transaction activity for a limited time period. While our review of the incident is ongoing, we have incurred transaction losses and other expenses as
a result, including claims under our protection programs, and we may be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, fines, penalties and litigation. Frequent or
persistent interruptions in or disruptions to our services could permanently harm our relationship with our customers and partners and our reputation. If any
system failure or similar event results in damage to our customers or their business partners, they could seek significant compensation or contractual penalties
from us for their losses. These claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address.

We also rely on facilities, components, applications, software, and services supplied by third parties, including data center facilities and cloud data storage and
processing services. From time to time, we have experienced interruptions in the provision of such facilities and services provided by these third parties. If
these third parties experience operational interference or disruptions (including a cybersecurity incident), fail to perform their obligations, or breach their
agreements with us, our operations could be disrupted or negatively affected, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, regulatory scrutiny, and damage to
our reputation and brands, and materially and adversely affect our business. While we maintain insurance policies intended to help offset the financial impact
we may experience from these risks, our coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for all losses caused by interruptions in our service due to systems
In addition, any failure to successfully implement new information systems and technologies or improvements or upgrades to existing information systems and
technologies in a timely manner could lead to regulatory scrutiny, significant fines and penalties, and mandatory and costly changes to our business, adversely
impact our business, internal controls, results of operations, and financial condition, and ultimately could cause us to lose existing licenses that we need to
operate or prevent or delay us from obtaining additional licenses that may be required for our business.
Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. Our failure to comply with extensive, complex, overlapping, and frequently
Our business is subject to complex and changing laws, rules, regulations, policies, licensing schemes, and legal interpretations in the markets in which we offer
services directly or through partners, including, but not limited to, those governing: banking, credit, deposit taking, cross-border and domestic money
transmission, prepaid access, foreign currency exchange, privacy, data protection, data governance, cybersecurity, banking secrecy, digital payments,
cryptocurrency, payment services (including payment processing and settlement services), lending, fraud detection, consumer protection, antitrust and
Regulators and legislators globally have been establishing, evolving, and increasing their regulatory authority, oversight, and enforcement, and it can be
difficult to predict how these may be applied to our business and the way we conduct our operations. As we introduce new products and services and expand
into new markets, including through acquisitions, we expect to become subject to additional regulations, restrictions, and licensing requirements. As we expand
and localize our international activities, we expect that our obligations in the markets in which we operate will continue to increase. In addition, because we
facilitate sales of goods and provide services to customers worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our customers are required to comply
with their laws or other types of regulation, which may impose different, more specific, and/or conflicting obligations on us, as well as broader liability.
We may not be able to respond quickly or effectively to regulatory, legislative, and other developments, any failure or perceived failure to comply with existing
or new laws, regulations, or orders of any government authority (including changes to or expansion of their interpretation) may result in audits, inquiries,
investigations, whistleblower complaints, and adverse media coverage; subject us to significant fines, penalties, monetary damages, injunctive relief, criminal
and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, and enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions; result in additional compliance and licensure
requirements; cause us to temporarily or permanently lose existing licenses or prevent or delay us from obtaining additional licenses that may be required for
our business; increase regulatory scrutiny of our business; divert management’s time and attention from our business; restrict our operations; lead to increased
friction for customers; force us to make changes to our business practices, products, or operations; require us to engage in remediation activities; or delay
planned transactions, product launches, or improvements. Any of the foregoing could, individually or in the aggregate, harm our reputation, damage our brands
and business, and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The complexity of U.S. federal and state and international regulatory and
enforcement regimes, coupled with the global scope of our operations and the evolving global regulatory environment, could result in a single event prompting
a large number of overlapping investigations and legal and regulatory proceedings by multiple government authorities in different jurisdictions. While we have
implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees,
contractors, and agents will not violate such laws and regulations.
Payments Regulation
In the U.S., PayPal, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary) holds licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent) in the states where such licenses are
required, as well as in the District of Columbia and certain territories. If we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations required to maintain our licenses,
we could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states or territories, forced to change our
business practices, or required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals, which could impose substantial costs and harm our business.

70

While we currently allow our customers to send payments from approximately 200 markets, we allow customers in only approximately half of those markets
(including the U.S.) to also receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can hold balances or withdraw
funds. These restrictions may limit our ability to grow our business.
We principally provide our services to customers in the European Economic Area (“EEA”) through PayPal (Europe) S.à.r.l. et Cie, S.C.A. (“PayPal (Europe)”),
our wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a credit institution in Luxembourg and to our customers in the United Kingdom
(“U.K.”) through PayPal U.K. Limited (“PayPal U.K.”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that is subject to regulation as an electronic money institution and a
consumer credit firm (and registered as a crypto asset business) in the U.K. by the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”). PayPal (Europe) or PayPal U.K. may
be subject to enforcement actions and significant fines and penalties if either violates applicable requirements. If the business activities of PayPal (Europe)
exceed certain thresholds, or if the European Central Bank (“ECB”) so determines, PayPal (Europe) may be deemed a significant supervised entity and certain
activities of PayPal (Europe) would become directly supervised by the ECB, rather than by the Luxembourg Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier.
PayPal (Europe) is also subject to regulation by the ECB under the oversight framework for electronic payment instruments, schemes and arrangements
(“PISA”). Compliance with applicable laws and regulations could become more costly and operationally difficult to manage due to additional supervision,
potentially inconsistent interpretations, and domestic regulations by various countries in the region. Applicable regulation relating to payments, anti-money
laundering, and digital services, which are key focus areas of regulators and subject to extensive new regulation, could subject us to additional and complex
obligations, risks, and associated costs, and impact our ability to expand our business in Europe.
For many of the other markets outside the U.S., we provide services on a cross-border basis through PayPal Pte. Ltd., our wholly-owned subsidiary based in
Singapore. PayPal Pte. Ltd. is supervised by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (“MAS”). As of July 1, 2023, PayPal Pte. Ltd. has been issued a Major
Payment Institution license by the MAS under the Payment Services Act 2019. In order to maintain this license and certain other licenses or registrations we
hold in certain markets, we are required to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, which have imposed and will continue to impose increasing
operational complexity and costs for our Singapore and international operations. Moreover, in many non-U.S. markets (other than Singapore) where customers
of PayPal Pte. Ltd. or local branches or subsidiaries subject to local regulatory supervision or oversight, as the case may be, are located, there may be
uncertainty whether our Singapore-based service is subject only to Singapore law or also to other local laws, and whether such local laws might require a
payment processor like us to be licensed as a payments service, bank, financial institution, or otherwise.
There are substantial costs and potential product and operational changes involved in maintaining and renewing licenses, certifications, and approvals, and we
could be subject to enforcement actions, fines, penalties, and litigation if we are found to violate any of these requirements. There can be no assurance that we
will be able to (or decide to) continue to apply for or obtain any licenses, renewals, certifications, and approvals in any jurisdiction. In certain markets, we may
need to rely on local banks or other partners to process payments and conduct foreign currency exchange transactions in local currency, and local regulators
may use their authority over such local partners to prohibit, restrict, or limit us from doing business. Any of the foregoing could, individually or in the
aggregate, result in substantial additional costs, delay or preclude planned transactions, geographical expansions, or product launches or improvements, require
significant and costly operational changes, impose restrictions, limitations, or additional requirements on our business, products and services, or prevent or
Our customer cryptocurrency offerings could subject us to additional regulations, licensing requirements, or other obligations or liabilities. Within the U.S., we
are regulated by the New York State Department of Financial Services as a virtual currency business, which does not qualify us to engage in securities
brokerage or dealing activities. The regulatory status of particular cryptocurrencies is unclear under existing law. The evolving legislative and regulatory
landscapes with respect to cryptocurrency other than stablecoins may subject us to additional licensing and regulatory obligations or to inquiries or
investigations from various regulators and governmental authorities, and require us to make product changes, restrict or discontinue product offerings in certain

71

In August 2023, a third-party issuer with which we have partnered commercially (the “PYUSD Issuer”) launched a U.S. dollar-denominated stablecoin named
PayPal USD (“PYUSD”), which is available to PayPal customers and Venmo customers in certain markets. These PayPal and Venmo customers may, if
provisioned for external transfers and subject to our sanctions and anti-money laundering controls, send PYUSD to external wallets not controlled by PayPal.
The PYUSD Issuer may also allow institutional users to directly purchase PYUSD from the PYUSD Issuer (as per the PYUSD Issuer’s stablecoin terms and
conditions). The regulatory treatment of stablecoins is evolving and has drawn significant attention from legislative and regulatory bodies around the world.
Recently enacted U.S. federal stablecoin legislation provides a regulatory framework that is in the process of being implemented. While PYUSD is designed to
comply with this U.S. framework, there remain uncertainties on how ongoing changes to international laws and regulations will apply to stablecoins in practice,
and we and the PYUSD Issuer may face substantial costs to operationalize and comply with any additional or changed requirement. If we or the PYUSD Issuer
fail to comply with regulations, requirements, prohibitions or other obligations applicable to us, we could face regulatory or other enforcement actions,
potential fines, penalties, and other consequences. In addition, we could face reputational harm through our relationship with the PYUSD Issuer if the PYUSD
Issuer were to face regulatory scrutiny or PYUSD is alleged to be used for transactions in connection with illicit or illegal activities.
We hold our customers’ cryptocurrency assets through one or more third-party custodians. Financial and third-party risks related to our customer
cryptocurrency offerings, such as inappropriate access to, theft, or destruction of cryptocurrency assets held by our custodians, insufficient insurance coverage
by a custodian to reimburse us for all such losses, a custodian’s failure to maintain effective controls over the custody and settlement services provided to us, a
custodian’s inability to purchase or liquidate cryptocurrency holdings, the failure of the PYUSD Issuer to maintain sufficient reserve assets backing PYUSD
and defaults on financial or performance obligations by a custodian, banks with which the PYUSD Issuer maintains reserve assets or counterparty financial
institutions, could expose our customers and us to loss, and significantly harm our business, financial condition, and reputation.
We have selected custodian partners and the PYUSD Issuer, and may in the future select additional custodian partners and stablecoin issuing entities, that are
subject to regulatory oversight, capital requirements, maintenance of audit and compliance industry certifications, and cybersecurity procedures and policies.
Nevertheless, any operational disruptions at any such custodian or issuer, or such custodians’ or issuer’s failure to safeguard cryptocurrency holdings (or
reserve assets), could result in losses of customer assets, expose us to customer claims, reduce consumer confidence and materially impact our cryptocurrency
Custodial arrangements to safeguard cryptocurrency assets involve unique risks and uncertainties in the event of a custodian’s bankruptcy. While other types of
assets and some custodied cryptocurrencies have been deemed not to be part of the custodian’s bankruptcy estate under various regulatory regimes, bankruptcy
courts have not yet definitively determined the appropriate treatment of custodial holdings of digital assets in a bankruptcy proceeding. In the event of a
custodian’s bankruptcy, the lack of precedent and the highly fact-dependent nature of the determination could delay or preclude the return of custodied
cryptocurrency assets to us or to our customers. Although we contractually require our custodians to segregate our customer assets and not commingle them
with proprietary or other assets, we cannot be certain that these contractual obligations, even if duly observed by a custodian, will be effective in preventing
such assets from being treated as part of the custodian’s estate under bankruptcy or other insolvency law. In that event, our claim on behalf of such customers
against a custodian’s estate for our customers’ cryptocurrency assets could be treated as a general unsecured claim against the custodian, in which case our
Consumer Protection
Violations of consumer protection law in applicable jurisdictions, including both federal and state laws and regulations in the U.S., such as the Electronic Fund
Transfer Act (“EFTA”) and Regulation E as implemented by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), could result in the assessment of significant
actual damages or statutory damages or penalties (including treble damages in some instances) and plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees. We are subject to, and have paid
amounts in settlement of, lawsuits containing allegations that our business violated the EFTA and Regulation E or otherwise advance claims for relief relating
to our business practices (e.g., that we improperly held consumer funds or otherwise improperly limited consumer accounts).

72

We are regularly subject to general litigation, regulatory scrutiny, and government inquiries.
We are regularly subject to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, arbitration proceedings, government and regulatory investigations, inquiries, actions or
requests, and other proceedings alleging violations of laws, rules, and regulations with respect to competition, antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, data
protection, information security, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, consumer protection (including
unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices), the terms of our customer agreements, fraud, accessibility, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial
disputes, services, charitable fundraising, contract disputes, escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property, product liability, use of our services for illegal
purposes, the matters described in “Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation and Regulatory Matters—General Matters” to our condensed
consolidated financial statements, and other matters. We expect that the number and significance of these disputes and inquiries will continue to increase as our
products, services, and business expand in complexity, scale, scope, and geographic reach, including through acquisitions of businesses and technology, and as
a result of expanded enforcement of certain existing laws and regulations by federal, state and local agencies. For example, there continues to be enforcement
activity in connection with federal and state consumer protection laws, including suits which seek civil penalties. Investigations, changes in, or expanded
enforcement of federal, state or local laws and regulations, and legal proceedings are inherently uncertain, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and
could result in substantial judgments, fines, penalties or settlements, substantial diversion of management’s time and effort, negative publicity, reputational
harm, criminal sanctions, or orders that prevent or limit us from offering certain products or services; require us to change our business practices or customer
agreement terms in ways that may increase costs or reduce revenues, develop non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies, or pay substantial
royalty or licensing fees; or delay or preclude planned transactions or product launches or improvements. Determining legal reserves or possible losses from
such matters involves significant estimates and judgments and may not reflect the full range of uncertainties and unpredictable outcomes. We may be exposed
to losses in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. If our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, this
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
We rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, which creates additional risk.
We rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, networks, banks, payment processors, and payment gateways that link us
to the payment card and bank clearing networks to process transactions; unaffiliated third-party lenders to originate our U.S. credit products to consumers, U.S.
merchant financing, and branded credit card products; branded debit card and savings products issued by unaffiliated banks; cryptocurrency custodial service
providers; and external business partners and contractors who provide key functions (including, but not limited to, data center facilities and cloud computing,
information technology, and outsourced customer support and product development functions). We are subject to additional risks inherent in engaging and
relying upon third-party providers, including operational, legal, regulatory, information security, reputational, commercial, and resiliency risks. If we are unable
to effectively manage our third-party relationships, these third parties are unable to meet their obligations to us, we are overly reliant on certain relationships,
we are unable to negotiate favorable contractual terms, or we experience substantial disruptions in these relationships (including interruptions to the availability
of our products and services), our operations, results of operations, liquidity and financial results could be adversely impacted. Additionally, our relationships
with third parties inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, governance, and compliance, which potentially increases our financial,
Any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business.
Cross-border trade (i.e., transactions where the merchant and consumer are in different countries) is an important source of our revenues and profits. Crossborder transactions generally provide higher revenues and operating income than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. In
certain markets, cross-border trade represents our primary (and in some instances our only) offerings. Cross-border trade may be negatively impacted by
various factors including foreign exchange rate fluctuations, changes in or new tariffs, trade wars, barriers or restrictions, or threats of such actions, or the
related uncertainty thereof, sanctions, import or export controls, and the interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions in the context of crossborder trade and foreign exchange. Any factors that increase the costs or uncertainty of cross-border trade for us or our customers or that restrict, delay, or
make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical could reduce our cross-border transactions and volume, negatively impact our revenues and profits, and

73

Failure to deal effectively with fraud, abusive behaviors, bad transactions, and negative customer experiences may increase our loss rate and could
negatively impact our business and severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services.
We expect that third parties will continue to attempt to abuse access to and misuse our payments services to commit fraud by, among other things, creating
fictitious PayPal accounts using stolen or synthetic identities or personal information, taking over customer accounts or creating fraudulent accounts, making
transactions with stolen financial instruments, abusing or misusing our services for financial gain, or fraudulently inducing users of our products and services
into engaging in fraudulent transactions. Due to the nature of PayPal’s digital payments services, third parties may seek to engage in abusive schemes or fraud
attacks that are often difficult to detect and may be deployed at a scale that would otherwise not be possible in physical transactions. Measures to detect and
reduce the risk of fraud and abusive behavior are complex, require continuous improvement, and may not be effective in detecting and preventing fraud,
particularly new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new or expanded product offerings. If these measures are not effective, our
business could be negatively impacted. We also incur substantial losses from erroneous transactions and situations where linked accounts designated by
customers to fund PayPal transactions have insufficient funds or are otherwise unavailable to fund the payments, or the payment is initiated to an unintended
recipient in error. Numerous and evolving fraud schemes and misuse of our payments services could subject us to significant costs and liabilities, require us to
change our business practices, cause us to incur significant remediation costs, lead to loss of customer confidence in, or decreased use of, our products and
services, damage our reputation and brands, divert the attention of management from the operation of our business, and result in significant compensation or
contractual penalties from us to our customers and their business partners as a result of losses or claims. While we actively seek to recover transaction losses
where possible, such recoveries may be insufficient to compensate us for such losses.
Our purchase and seller protection programs (“protection programs”) are intended to reduce the likelihood of losses for consumers and merchants from
unauthorized and fraudulent transactions. Our purchase protection program also protects eligible transactions where consumers do not receive the item ordered
or receive an item that is significantly different from its description. We incur substantial losses from our protection programs as a result of disputes filed by
our customers. While we may seek to recover losses from our protection programs from the merchant, we ultimately may not be able to fully recover such
losses (for example, if the merchant is unwilling or unable to pay, the transaction involves a fraudulent merchant, or the merchant provides sufficient evidence
that the item was delivered).
In addition, consumers who pay through PayPal or Venmo may have reimbursement rights from their payment card issuer, which in turn will seek recovery
from us. If losses incurred by us related to payment card transactions become excessive, we could lose the ability to accept payment cards for payment, which
would negatively impact our business. Regulators and card networks may also adapt error resolution and chargeback requirements to account for evolving
forms of fraud, which could increase PayPal’s exposure to fraud losses and impact the scope of coverage of our protection programs. Increases in our loss rate,
including as a result of changes to the scope of transactions covered by our protection programs, could negatively impact our business and results of operations.
See “Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies—Protection Programs” to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Failure to effectively monitor and evaluate the financial condition of our merchants may expose PayPal to losses. In the event of the bankruptcy, insolvency,
business failure, or other business interruption of a merchant that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (e.g., airline, cruise, or
concert tickets, custom-made goods, and subscriptions), we could be liable to the buyers of such goods or services, including through our purchase protection
program or through chargebacks on payment cards used by customers to fund their purchase. Allowances for transaction losses that we have established may be

Our international operations subject us to increased risks, which could harm our business.
Our international operations generate a significant portion of our net revenues. Our international operations subject us to significant challenges, uncertainties,
and risks, including, but not limited to, local regulatory, licensing, reporting, and legal obligations; costs and challenges associated with operating in markets in
which we may have limited or no experience, including effectively localizing our products and services and adapting them to local preferences; difficulties in
developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences and
in light of varying laws, regulations, and customs; differing employment practices and the existence of works councils; difficulties in recruiting and retaining
qualified employees and maintaining our company culture; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; exchange control regulations; profit repatriation restrictions;
changes in or new tariffs, sanctions, fines, or other trade barriers or restrictions and the related uncertainty thereof; import or export regulations; compliance
with U.S. and foreign anti-bribery, anti-corruption, sanctions, anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations; the interpretation and
application of laws of multiple jurisdictions; and national or regional political, economic, or social instability. In addition, some countries have enacted or are
considering data localization or residency laws, which require that certain data be maintained, stored and/or processed within their country of origin.
Maintaining local data centers in individual countries could significantly increase our operating costs.
Our international operations also may heighten many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section. Any violations of the complex foreign and U.S.
laws, rules and regulations that may apply to our international operations may result in lawsuits, enforcement actions, criminal actions, or sanctions against us
and, our directors, officers, and employees; prohibit or require us to change our business practices; and damage our reputation. Although we have implemented
policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate
our policies. These risks are inherent in our international operations, may increase our costs of doing business internationally, and could materially and
Adverse global and regional economic conditions such as political unrest and turmoil affecting the banking system or financial markets, including, but not
limited to, tightening in the credit markets, extreme volatility or distress in the financial markets (including the fixed income, credit, currency, equity, and
commodity markets), unemployment, consumer debt levels, recessionary or inflationary pressures, supply chain issues, reduced consumer confidence or
economic activity, government fiscal, monetary and tax policies, U.S. and international trade relationships, agreements, treaties, changes in or new tariffs and
restrictive actions or threats of such actions, including an escalation of trade tensions between the U.S. and its trading partners, the inability of a government to
enact a budget in a fiscal year, government shutdowns, government austerity programs, geopolitical conditions or events, and other negative financial news or
macroeconomic developments could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and services, including a reduction in the volume and size
of transactions on our payments platform. In particular, recent tariffs and reciprocal trade measures enacted or threatened to be enacted by the U.S. and other
countries have led to increased volatility and uncertainty in certain parts of the global economy. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of the
current or any future potential economic volatility or slowdown in the U.S. or globally. These conditions could have a material adverse impact on the demand
for our products and services which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, any inability to access the capital markets when needed due
to volatility or illiquidity in the markets, liquidity needs due to unanticipated reductions in customer balances, or increased regulatory liquidity and capital
requirements may strain our liquidity position. Such conditions may also expose us to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates or interest rates that could
Environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) issues may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and
Various jurisdictions are adopting or considering new laws and regulations that expand or curtail disclosure, reporting and diligence requirements with respect
to ESG matters. If we are unable to comply with new laws, regulations or guidance concerning ESG matters or fail to meet investor, industry or stakeholder
expectations and standards, our reputation may be harmed, customers may choose to refrain from using our products and services, we may be subject to fines,
penalties, regulatory or other enforcement actions, and our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. If our ESG-related data, processes and
reporting are viewed as incomplete or inaccurate, or if we fail to achieve progress with respect to ESG-related goals on a timely basis or at all, we may be
viewed negatively by stakeholders concerned about these matters. Moreover, investors, customers, partners, media, government entities, and other stakeholders
(including those in support of or in opposition to ESG principles) may have a negative view of us to the extent we are perceived to have not responded
appropriately to their ESG concerns or take positions that are contrary to their views or expectations.

75

We recognize that climate-related risks may impact our business. For example, California, where our headquarters are located, has historically experienced, and
is projected to continue to experience, extreme weather and natural disaster events more frequently, including drought, flooding, heat waves, and wildfires.
Such events may disrupt our business and may cause us to experience additional costs to maintain or resume operations.
There can be no assurance that we will continue to repurchase stock or declare cash dividends, and stock repurchases or dividends could increase the
We engage in share repurchases of our common stock from time to time in accordance with authorizations from our Board of Directors. Our stock repurchase
programs do not have expiration dates and do not obligate us to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. In October
2025, we announced that our Board of Directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend program. Future cash dividends are subject to declaration by our Board of
Directors in its sole discretion and, therefore, are subject to numerous factors including, among others, prevailing market conditions, our results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity, applicable laws and agreements. Our stock repurchases and our dividends could affect the trading price of our common stock
and increase volatility, reduce our cash reserves and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our
common stock.

76

In June 2022, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program that provides for the repurchase of up to $15 billion of our common stock, with no
expiration from the date of authorization. In February 2025, our Board of Directors authorized an additional stock repurchase program that provides for the
repurchase of up to $15 billion of our common stock, with no expiration from the date of authorization. Our stock repurchase programs are intended to offset
the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, may also be used to make opportunistic
repurchases of our common stock to reduce outstanding share count. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase programs may be made through open
market transactions, block trades, privately negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase agreements or other means at times and in such
amounts as management deems appropriate, and will be funded from our working capital or other financing alternatives. Moreover, any stock repurchases are
subject to market conditions and other uncertainties and we cannot predict if or when any stock repurchases will be made. We may terminate our stock
The stock repurchase activity under our stock repurchase programs during the three months ended September 30, 2025 is summarized below:

shares purchased

Average price

publicly announced

Approximate dollar
may yet be purchased
programs

21.3

74.75
68.85
67.92

21.3

16,855
16,331
15,831
15,355
15,355

Average price paid per share for open market purchases includes broker commissions, but excludes excise tax.

None.

Not applicable.

None.

Exhibit
Number

10.01†

31.01
31.02
32.01*
32.02*
101

104

Exhibit Description

Deed of Amendment in relation to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of
September 23, 2025, by and between PayPal (Europe) S.à r.l. et Cie, SCA (as Seller
S.à r.l. (as Purchaser), BNY Mellon Corporate Trustee Services Limited (as Security
Agent), Avega S.à r.l. (as Back-Up Receivables Manager Facilitator) and Alps
Certification of Registrant’s Chief Executive Officer, as required by Section 302 of
Certification of Registrant’s Chief Financial Officer, as required by Section 302 of the
Certification of Registrant’s Chief Executive Officer, as required by Section 906 of
Certification of Registrant’s Chief Financial Officer, as required by Section 906 of the
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2025, formatted in iXBRL (Inline
Consolidated Financial Statements
Cover Page Interactive Data File, formatted in iXBRL and contained in Exhibit 101

Form

Date Filed

Filed Herewith

† Certain portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(10)(iv) of Regulation S‑K.
* The certifications furnished in Exhibits 32.01 and 32.02 hereto are deemed to accompany this Form 10-Q and will not be deemed “filed” for purposes of
Section 18 of the Exchange Act. Such certifications will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filings under the Securities Act or the
Exchange Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates them by reference.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned

Christopher Natali

79

In this Exhibit 10.0, the notation “[* * *]” identifies certain information that has been excluded because it is both not material and is the type that the

as Purchaser

CONTENTS
CLAUSE PAGE
1.

Definitions and interpretation

2.

Amendment

3.

Representations and Warranties

4.

Continuing obligations

5.

6.

Further assurance

7.

8.

Counterparts

9.

THIS DEED (this Deed) is dated 23 September 2025 and made between:

PAYPAL (EUROPE) S.À R.L. ET CIE, S.C.A., a corporate partnership limited by shares (société en commandite par
actions) incorporated under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (Luxembourg), having its registered office at
22-24 Boulevard Royal, L-2449 Luxembourg, Luxembourg and registered with the Luxembourg trade and companies
register under number B118.349, acting through and represented by its managing general partner PayPal (Europe) S.à
r.l., a private limited liability company (société à responsabilité limitée) incorporated under the laws of Luxembourg,
having its registered office at 22-24 Boulevard Royal, L-2449 Luxembourg, Luxembourg and registered with the
Luxembourg trade and companies register under number B127.485 (a Receivables Manager and the Seller);

PAYPAL UK LTD, a private limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales (registered number
14741686), having its registered office at 5 Fleet Place, London, United Kingdom, EC4M 7RD (a Receivables
Manager);

ALPS PARTNERS S.À R.L., a private limited liability company (société à responsabilité limitée) incorporated under the
laws of Luxembourg, with its registered office at 2, rue Edward Steichen, L- 2540 Luxembourg, Luxembourg and
registered with the Luxembourg trade and companies register (Registre de commerce et des sociétés, Luxembourg)
under number B277050, and subject, as an unregulated securitisation undertaking (organisme de titrisation), to the
Luxembourg act dated 22 March 2004 on securitisation, as amended (the Securitisation Act 2004) (the Purchaser);

BNY MELLON CORPORATE TRUSTEE SERVICES LIMITED, acting through its office at 160 Queen Victoria Street,
London EC4V 4LA, United Kingdom (in its capacity as security agent for the Secured Creditors, the Security Agent
which expression shall include such company and all other persons or companies for the time being acting as the

AVEGA S.À R.L., a private limited liability company (société à responsabilité limitée) incorporated under the laws of
Luxembourg, Luxembourg having its registered office at 2, rue Edward Steichen, L-2540 Luxembourg and registered
with the Luxembourg trade and companies register under number B123099 (the Back-Up Receivables Manager
Facilitator); and

ALPS PARTNERS (HOLDING) S.À R.L., a private limited liability company (société à responsabilité limitée)
incorporated under the laws of Luxembourg, with its registered office at 2, rue Edward Steichen, L- 2540 Luxembourg,

companies register (Registre de commerce et des sociétés, Luxembourg) under number B276993 (the Class C
Lender),
Recitals:

The Parties have entered into a receivables purchase agreement dated 16 June 2023 (as most recently amended and
restated on 12 May 2025) pursuant to which the Seller agrees to sell and the Purchaser agrees to purchase the Seller’s
whole right, title, interest and benefit in certain receivables and their related rights (the Receivables Purchase
Agreement).

Pursuant to a deed of accession dated 31 October 2023, PayPal UK Ltd became a party to the Receivables Purchase

The Parties now wish to amend further the Receivables Purchase Agreement in accordance with the terms of this Deed.

(D)

The Security Agent is entering into this Deed on the instructions of (i) the Instructing Creditors (as defined in the
Master Framework Agreement) pursuant to and in accordance with a consent letter relating to the Master Framework
Agreement dated on or about the date hereof; and (ii) the Class C Lender pursuant to and in accordance with Clause 7

IT IS AGREED as follows:
1.

Definitions and interpretation

1.1

Definitions

1.2

Capitalised terms in this Deed shall, except where the context otherwise requires or where otherwise defined in this
Deed, have the meanings given to them in Schedule 22 (Definitions) of the Receivables Purchase Agreement, and this
Deed shall be construed in accordance with the principles of construction set out in Clause 1 (Definitions and

1.3

2.

Amendment

2.1

With effect from the Effective Date and in accordance with Clause 29 (Amendments and Waivers) of the Receivables
Purchase Agreement, the Receivables Purchase Agreement shall be amended as follows:

The definition of “Deferred Purchase Price” in Schedule 22 (Definitions) of the Receivables Purchase Agreement
shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:

for each Reporting Period, an amount equal to [* * *] of any amounts of Post-Charge Off Receipts

in connection with any sale by the Purchaser to either the Seller or to a third party of Purchased
Receivables which are Charged-Off Receivables, an amount equal to the Agreed Percentage of the
purchase price payable to the Purchaser in respect of such sale. Agreed Percentage means such
percentage as has been agreed in writing between the Seller and the Class C Lender to apply to the

Clause 5.3 of the Receivables Purchase Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
“The Purchaser shall pay to the Seller amounts of Deferred Purchase Price as follows:

in respect of Deferred Purchase Price described under paragraph (a) of the definition of “Deferred
Purchase Price”, the Purchaser shall on each Monthly Settlement Date pay to the Seller such Deferred
Purchase Price calculated in respect of the Reporting Period ending on the second Monthly Reporting Date
prior to such Monthly Settlement Date. Notification of the amount payable in respect of such Deferred
Purchase Price for a particular Reporting Period shall be made to the Purchaser on the Monthly Reporting
Date relating to such Reporting Period. Payment of amounts of such Deferred Purchase Price then
payable shall be satisfied by way of set-off against the Collections Sweep Payments which otherwise are
required to be made to the Purchaser at that time or if any Collection Sweep Payments to be made on
such day are insufficient to be applied and

set-off so as to satisfy such payment in full, any non-payment in full of such Deferred Purchase Price
shall not constitute a failure to pay for the purposes of Clause 12.1(b) and the Seller may satisfy any
such unpaid Deferred Purchase Price by applying the Collections Sweep payment on the next following
Business Day and thereafter until the relevant amount of such Deferred Purchase Price is settled in full;

in respect of Deferred Purchase Price described under paragraph (b) of the definition of “Deferred
Purchase Price” which is payable in connection with a sale of Charged-Off Receivables to a third party,
the Purchaser shall pay to the Seller such Deferred Purchase Price on the date the Purchaser receives the
relevant purchase price (or on such other date as may be agreed between the Seller and the Class C
Lender); and

in respect of Deferred Purchase Price described under paragraph (b) of the definition of “Deferred
Purchase Price” which is payable in connection with a sale of Charged-Off Receivables to the Seller, the
Purchaser shall pay to the Seller such Deferred Purchase Price on the date the Seller is due to pay the
purchase price in respect of the connected sale of Charged-Off Receivables to the Purchaser. Payment of
such Deferred Purchase Price then payable shall be satisfied by way of set-off against the purchase price
payable by the Seller to the Purchaser in respect of the connected sale of Charged-Off Receivables, such
that the Seller shall only be required to pay the net amount to the Purchaser.”.

3.

Representations and Warranties

3.1

On the Effective Date the Seller makes the representations and warranties in the form set out in Part B of Schedule 2
(Seller Representations) to the Receivables Purchase Agreement to the Purchaser and the Security Agent.

3.2

On the Effective Date the Purchaser makes the representations and warranties in the form set out in Part C of Schedule
2 (Purchaser Representations) to the Receivables Purchase Agreement to the Seller and the Security Agent.

3.3

For the purposes of this Clause 3, references to the “Transaction Documents” in Part B of Schedule 2 (Seller

Receivables Purchase Agreement or Part C of Schedule 2 (Purchaser Representations) to the Receivables Purchase
Agreement shall be construed to include this Deed, the Receivables Purchase Agreement (immediately prior to its
amendment pursuant to this Deed) and the Receivables Purchase Agreement (as amended pursuant to this Deed).
4.

Continuing obligations

4.1

The provisions of the Receivables Purchase Agreement and other Transaction Documents shall, save as amended by
this Deed, continue in full force and effect and nothing in this Deed shall constitute or be construed as an amendment,
waiver or compromise of any other term or condition of the Transaction Documents or any of the Parties’ rights in
relation to them which for the avoidance of doubt shall continue to apply in full force and effect.

4.2

References in the Receivables Purchase Agreement or in any other Transaction Document (other than in Clause 3.3 of
this Deed) to “the Receivables Purchase Agreement”, “this Agreement”, “hereof”, “hereunder” and expressions of
similar import shall, on and from the Effective Date, be deemed to be references to the Receivables Purchase

4.3

Each of the Parties hereto acknowledges and agrees that the amendments effected pursuant to this Deed have been
effected in accordance and compliance with the relevant provisions in the Receivables Purchase Agreement (and that
they shall be estopped from asserting otherwise after the Effective Date).

5.

The provisions of Clauses 26 (Confidentiality), 29 (Amendments and waivers), 31 (Notices), 32 (Bail-In), 33 (Third
Party Rights), 34 (Severability) and 36 (Limited Recourse and Non-Petition) of the Receivables Purchase Agreement
shall be incorporated into this Deed as if set out in full in this Deed and as if references in those clauses to “this
Agreement” are references to this Deed.

6.

Further assurance
The Parties hereto agree that they will co-operate fully to (and the Purchaser will use best efforts to provide relevant
information and support to the Seller and each Receivables Manager such that the Seller and each Receivables
Manager shall) do all such further acts and things and execute any further documents that may be necessary or
desirable to give full effect to the transactions contemplated by this Deed (but subject always

to the provisions of Clauses 8 (Notification of Sales) and 27 (Data Protection) of the Receivables Purchase Agreement).
7.

7.1

The Class C Lender hereby authorises and directs the Security Agent to execute this Deed in order to effect the
amendment of the Receivables Purchase Agreement in accordance with this Deed and to take any action as may be
necessary in connection with, or in order to give effect to this Deed including, without limitation, consenting to the

7.2

Discharge and exoneration of the Security Agent’s liability in relation to this Deed
The Class C Lender discharges and exonerates the Security Agent from any and all liability for which it may or may
have become responsible under the Transaction Documents in connection with this Deed (including but not limited to

The Class C Lender irrevocably waives any claim that it may have against the Security Agent arising as a result of any
loss or damage which it may suffer or incur as a result of the Security Agent acting upon the direction in Clause 7.1
(Class C Lender direction to Security Agent) (including but not limited to circumstances where it is subsequently found
that the direction in Clause 7.1 (Class C Lender direction to Security Agent) is not valid or binding) and the Class C
Lender further confirms that it will not seek to hold the Security Agent liable for any such loss or damage.

7.4

The Class C Lender expressly agrees and undertakes to indemnify and hold harmless the Security Agent from and
against all losses, liabilities, damages, costs, charges and expenses which may be suffered or incurred by it as a result
of any claims (whether or not successful, compromised or settled), actions, demands or proceedings brought against
the Security Agent and against all losses, costs, charges or expenses (including legal fees) which the Security Agent
may suffer or incur which in any case arise as a result of the Security Agent acting in accordance with the direction in
Clause 7.1 (Class C Lender direction to Security Agent) and the Transaction Documents.

7.5

Approval of every modification in respect of the rights of the Class C Lender necessary to give effect to this Deed
The Class C Lender approves every modification and amendment (and the implementation thereof) in respect of their
rights relating to the Transaction Documents resulting from or to be effected by the modifications, authorisations and
determinations referred to in the direction in Clause 7.1 (Class C Lender direction to Security Agent).

8.

Counterparts
This Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts and by each Party on single counterparts. Each counterpart
is an original, but all counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of a counterpart of
this Deed by e-mail shall be an effective mode of delivery.

9.

9.1

Governing law
This Deed and any non-contractual obligations arising out of or in connection with it shall be governed by, and

9.2

The English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction in relation to all disputes arising out of or in connection with this
Deed (including claims for set-off and counterclaims), including disputes arising out of or in connection with: (i) the
creation, validity, effect, interpretation, performance or non-performance of, or the legal relationships established by,
this Deed; and (ii) any non-contractual obligations arising out of or in connection with this Deed. For such purposes,
each Party irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the English courts and waives any objection to the exercise of such
jurisdiction.

IN WITNESS of which this Deed has been executed and delivered by the Parties to it on the date stated on the first page of
this Deed.

acting through and represented by its managing general partner PayPal (Europe) S.à r.l.

Authorised Signatory

Receivables Manager

Director

Witness

I confirm that the above-named signatory has executed this document in my presence.

The Purchaser

SERVICES LIMITED

1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-Q of PayPal Holdings, Inc.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the
a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent
fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
5. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):
a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control

I, Alex Chriss, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that:
(i) The accompanying quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2025 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and
(ii) The information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of PayPal Holdings,
Inc.
The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as part of this report.

I, Jamie Miller, hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that:
(i) The accompanying quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2025 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and
(ii) The information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of PayPal Holdings,
Inc.
The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as part of this report.