December 18, 2025
Amazon Business Prime Offers Small and Midsize Businesses Even More Value with New Benefits from Intuit QuickBooks, CrowdStrike, and Gusto
Business Prime customers have access to exclusive benefits with Intuit QuickBooks, CrowdStrike, and Gusto to support their financial management, cybersecurity, and Human Resources needs
Expanded benefits can help SMBs save nearly $1,000 per year, streamline operations, and simplify business buying
Savings build on Business Prime's value, joining member benefits like fast, free shipping, Spend Visibility, Guided Buying, and flexible payment options
SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Today Amazon (NASDAQ: AMZN) announced that Amazon Business has added even more value to the Business Prime membership program with benefits from Intuit QuickBooks, CrowdStrike, and Gusto that help small and midsize business customers save time and money. Amazon Business tailors the best of Amazon-everyday low prices, vast selection, and a convenient shopping and delivery experience-alongside a diverse supplier network, a reliable global logistics system, adaptable workflow features, and intelligent automation tools to meet the needs of organizations of all sizes, including hundreds of thousands of small businesses worldwide.
The Business Prime membership enhances this value proposition by offering organizations even more benefits, including access to fast, free shipping on millions of items, along with powerful analytics and spending controls that optimize the management of decentralized purchasing.
With three new collaborations offering benefits in financial management, cybersecurity, and HR, Business Prime has never been more valuable for members.
"Small business owners wear a lot of hats - accountant, HR manager, IT lead - sometimes all before lunch," said Todd Heimes, VP at Amazon Business. "We're thrilled to introduce new Business Prime benefits that help them work smarter, save money, and get back to what they love most - running their business."
Simplify Finances with Intuit QuickBooks
QuickBooks brings industry-leading financial management tools to Business Prime members at a fraction of the cost, which includes a direct integration that enables small business customers to seamlessly automate purchase reconciliation and categorization. Coming in 2026, this benefit gives Business Prime members access to QuickBooks Online Simple Start for just $180 per year - a 60% discount off the regular $456 MSRP.
With QuickBooks, millions of small businesses manage their finances end-to-end including automating payments, getting paid faster, paying employees, and seamlessly reconciling their books. This benefit is best suited for small businesses that want to simplify business operations, gain visibility into cash flow, and streamline financial management. It's available to Business Prime members in the U.S. who are new QuickBooks Online subscribers and maintain an active Business Prime Essentials subscription.
Business Prime members can redeem this exclusive offer through their Business Prime benefits page and complete a simple activation process on Intuit's website. Once enrolled, members can manage their business while continuing to enjoy their discounted rate for the duration of the promotion period.
Protect Your Business with Free Enterprise-Grade Cybersecurity
Business Prime members on the Essentials plan and above now receive access to CrowdStrike Falcon Go at no additional cost - bringing the power of the industry's leading cybersecurity platform to small and midsize businesses. Falcon Go delivers AI-native protection designed to stop breaches, providing world-class prevention against ransomware, malware, and modern cyberattacks for organizations that often lack dedicated security teams.
Falcon Go delivers the same industry-leading speed, efficacy, and AI-powered detection that protect the world's largest enterprises. This benefit, valued at $59 per device annually, removes financial and operational barriers by giving SMBs effortless access to enterprise-grade protection through the Amazon Business Prime membership.
The offer is available to Business Prime members in the U.S. who do not already have a CrowdStrike account and maintain an active Business Prime account. Business Prime Duo members receive 50% off the standard Falcon Go rate. Members can activate their cybersecurity benefit directly through their Business Prime benefits page and complete a quick setup experience on CrowdStrike's website. Once enabled, Falcon Go immediately provides AI-powered protection that helps businesses defend against evolving threats and keep operations running securely.
Streamline HR and Payroll with Gusto
Business Prime members in the U.S. also now receive 70% off their first 12 months of Gusto's comprehensive payroll and HR platform. Available immediately, this benefit gives members access to Gusto's all-in-one system for hiring, onboarding, payroll, and benefits administration - helping business owners save time, stay compliant with company policies, and reduce manual work. Trusted by more than 400,000 businesses nationwide, Gusto is best suited for small businesses looking to automate payroll, simplify HR management, and drive compliance with federal and state regulations. The offer is available to members without an existing Gusto account and requires an active Business Prime membership to qualify.
Members can redeem this offer through their Business Prime benefits page and complete the activation process on Gusto's website. Once enrolled, members gain access to automated payroll runs, built-in tax filing, and benefits management tools that help save hours each week and allow them to focus more on growing their business. After the 12-month promotional period, standard pricing applies.
When Prime Means Business
With yearly savings of nearly $1,000, fast delivery speeds, and significant membership engagement, Business Prime continues to demonstrate its value as an essential tool for business customers worldwide. Business Prime members also have access to enhanced shipping benefits including Amazon Day, which consolidates eligible deliveries to a single day each week. Last year, Business Prime members saved more than $750 million globally in shipping fees, and nearly 50% of global orders and over 70% of U.S. Business Prime orders arrived the same day or next day in the last year.
Small business customers in the U.S. can take advantage of additional savings opportunities through Business Prime Rewards which offers up to 4% back on brands by Amazon. Customers can also enjoy savings from the Amazon Business Prime American Express Card and Prime-exclusive deals.
From Solopreneurs to Fortune 500: Amazon Business Provides Value, Selection, and Convenience
Since launching in the U.S. in 2015, Amazon Business has empowered businesses of all sizes through unmatched selection, deep discounts, and smart capabilities. Today, Amazon Business continues to be a priority for the company, driving over $35 billion in annualized gross sales, with strong adoption and positive feedback from customers. Amazon Business actively serves more than eight million organizations globally, excluding emerging geographies. Procurement and business leaders benefit from convenient shipping options on hundreds of millions of supplies across categories like office, IT, janitorial, and food service, along with business-tailored features including a curated site experience, Business Prime, business-only pricing and selection, single- or multi-user business accounts, approval workflows, purchasing system integrations, payment solutions, tax exemptions, and dedicated customer support.
Working closely with customers to understand their business buying challenges, Amazon Business continues to develop new technologies that make it easy for organizations and administrators to define, meet, and proactively measure progress toward their purchasing budgets and goals. Amazon Business is now a strategic partner to businesses in 11 countries including Australia, Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
Visit the Amazon Business website to learn more.
Amazon.com, Inc.
Media Hotline
Amazon-pr@amazon.com
www.amazon.com/pr
Source: Amazon.com, Inc.

* Press Center
* Investor Resources
* Amazon News
* Images and videos
* Contact Amazon PR
* Shop Amazon.com
* Careers
*
*
*
*
*
Amazon.com | Conditions of Use | (c) 1996-2026 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates