1

DOUG CLARK
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. With me on the call today are Shantanu Narayen, Adobe’s
Chair and CEO, David Wadhwani, President of Digital Media, Anil Chakravarthy, President of Digital
Experience, and Dan Durn, Executive Vice President and CFO.
On this call, which is being recorded, we will discuss Adobe’s third quarter ﬁscal year 2025 ﬁnancial
results. You can ﬁnd our press release, as well as PDFs of our prepared remarks and ﬁnancial results, on
Adobe’s Investor Relations website.

Financial Disclaimer
Some of the information discussed in this presentation, including our ﬁnancial targets and product plans,
is based on information as of today, September 11, 2025 and contains forward-looking statements that
involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may diﬀer materially from those set forth in
such statements.
For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, you should review Adobe’s SEC ﬁlings.
During this presentation, we will discuss non-GAAP ﬁnancial measures. The GAAP ﬁnancial measures that
correspond to non-GAAP or adjusted ﬁnancial measures, as well as the reconciliation between the two,
are available on www.adobe.com/ADBE.

© 2025 Adobe. All Rights Reserved. Adobe Conﬁdential.

The information discussed on this call, including our ﬁnancial targets and product plans, is as of today,
September 11, and contains forward-looking statements that involve risk, uncertainty and assumptions.
Actual results may diﬀer materially from those set forth in these statements. For more information on
those risks, please review today's earnings release and Adobe's SEC ﬁlings.
On this call we will discuss GAAP and non-GAAP ﬁnancial measures. Our reported results include GAAP
growth rates and non-GAAP growth rates, including constant currency rates. During this presentation,
Adobe’s executives will refer to constant currency growth rates unless otherwise stated. Non-GAAP
reconciliations are available in our earnings release and on Adobe’s Investor Relations website.
I will now turn the call over to Shantanu.

2

Q3 FY2025 Results
Shantanu Narayen | Chair & CEO

SHANTANU NARAYEN
Thanks, Doug.
Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us.

Adobe had another strong quarter and delivered double-digit top-line growth and proﬁtability. In Q3, we
achieved record revenue of $5.99 billion, representing 10 percent year-over-year growth. GAAP earnings
per share for the quarter was $4.18 and non-GAAP earnings per share was $5.31 representing 14
percent year-over-year growth.

3

AI represents a tectonic technology shift and presents the biggest opportunity for Adobe in decades. Our
strategy to harness AI is focused on infusing it across our category-leading applications to provide more
value and delivering innovative new AI-ﬁrst products. We’ve done a great job executing this strategy by
accelerating innovation with a focus on oﬀering greater value to Creative and Marketing Professionals
and Business Professionals and Consumers.
Creativity has always been core to the company’s mission. We’re infusing AI across our ﬂagship Creative
Cloud applications including Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere Pro and After Eﬀects and delivering new
oﬀerings for next generation creators with Adobe Fireﬂy across web and mobile.
•

We're delivering an end-to-end, ideation-to-creation solution in the new Fireﬂy application to
make it the single destination for creators’ workﬂows. It includes our own ﬁrst-party,
commercially safe models and leading third-party models. We are seeing strong adoption of the
standalone Fireﬂy subscription oﬀering.

•

We recently added Google Gemini Flash 2.5 alongside Google’s Veo and Imagen models to the
roster of partner models from OpenAI, Black Forest Labs, Runway, Pika, Ideogram and others. In
the rapidly evolving AI landscape, where each generative AI model has its own aesthetic style,
we’re oﬀering customers choice and ﬂexibility to use the right model within Adobe applications,
without the friction of switching between workﬂows and platforms.

•

AI is now deeply integrated across our ﬂagship applications in Creative Cloud, giving creators
everything they need to bring their creative visions to life all in one workﬂow. We’re seeing
strong adoption of the Creative Cloud Pro oﬀering which includes Fireﬂy, reﬂecting the value

4

professionals see in having AI integrated with power and precision creative tools. Simply put,
Adobe is the operating system for creative work.
Adobe combines creativity and marketing in the enterprise, oﬀering the most diﬀerentiated solution to
serve the growing needs of Creative and Marketing Professionals.
•

Adobe GenStudio is the most comprehensive solution that brings together workﬂow and
planning, creation and production, asset management, activation and delivery and reporting and
insights to enable marketing automation with AI in the enterprise.

•

Our Workfront, Frame, AEM Assets, Fireﬂy Services, and GenStudio for Performance Marketing
products - which are key components of the integrated GenStudio solution - now exceed $1
billion in ARR growing over 25 percent year over year.

Customers are leveraging the rich data and customer knowledge in Adobe Experience Platform to enable
agentic workﬂows to scale the capabilities of Adobe’s category-leading customer experience
orchestration applications. We’re seeing continued adoption and momentum for Adobe Experience
Platform (AEP) AI Assistant with 70 percent of eligible AEP customers leveraging this functionality.
•

As AI transforms consumer behavior, it’s reinventing marketing and customer experience. Brand
discovery is shifting from primarily search to include generative engine optimization. AI becomes
the new UI, guided by conversations rather than menu clicks. Brands must deliver hyperpersonalized, immersive experiences on owned channels to drive engagement and loyalty. In this
new reality, Adobe uniquely oﬀers an integrated customer experience platform that delivers
automation, agility and scale.

•

The explosion of content creation and automation in the enterprise and the beginning of new
marketing needs such as LLM optimization and LLM advertising are a massive opportunity for
Adobe. We’re infusing AI into Adobe Experience Manager with our upcoming LLM Optimizer
release, a powerful agentic app to improve brand visibility, drive acquisition and maintain
engagement with customers across LLM platforms.

For Business Professionals and Consumers, we’re integrating creativity with productivity for billions of
users with the recent launch of Acrobat Studio, which brings together Acrobat and Express.
•

PDF has been the global standard for digital documents for over 30 years and continues to grow.
We’re evolving Acrobat from a leading document productivity app to a ﬁrst-of-its

5

kind destination for people to get insights faster, create standout content and collaborate more
seamlessly.
•

The new Acrobat Studio includes PDF Spaces, which transforms collections of PDFs, web pages
and other ﬁles into dynamic knowledge hubs that help people work smarter and faster using AI
Assistant to derive insights.

•

We're seeing steady growth across our family of Acrobat and Express products with combined
monthly active users growing approximately 25 percent year over year.

Adobe is the leader in the AI creative applications category. Our AI-inﬂuenced ARR has now surpassed $5
billion, up from over $3.5 billion exiting ﬁscal year 2024 and we have already surpassed our full year AIﬁrst ending ARR target. Given our customer-focused growth strategy, product innovation and strong goto-market execution and the momentum in our business, we’re pleased to once again raise our FY25
revenue and EPS targets.
I'll now turn it over to David and Anil to discuss the momentum in our business.

6

DAVID WADHWANI
Thanks, Shantanu. Hello, everyone.

In Q3, Digital Media achieved revenue of $4.46 billion, which grew 11 percent year over year. We exited
the quarter with $18.59 billion of Digital Media ARR, growing ending ARR 11.7 percent year over year.

7

Our Business Professionals and Consumers customer group had another strong quarter. The
introduction of Acrobat AI Assistant brought a new conversational interface that enhances the
experience of customers consuming PDFs. This unlocks increased comprehension across the trillions of
PDFs in the world. We continue to see accelerated use of AI Assistant across desktop, web and mobile.
Our vision is to harness the power of generative AI and conversational experiences to fundamentally
reshape how knowledge is discovered, synthesized and shared. We’re executing on our strategy to
extend the role of PDF and Acrobat by delivering a cohesive experience that empowers individuals to
eﬀortlessly move from content consumption in Acrobat to content creation in Express.
We’ve expanded our strategy with the introduction of PDF Spaces, a new foundation for content
consumption and creation. PDF Spaces reimagines how people work with documents—transforming
static ﬁles into dynamic, collaborative knowledge hubs. Users can leverage PDF Spaces to organize
documents and links, discover insights faster through conversational experiences and enable editing and
remixing of PDF content into new formats like emails and presentations. I’m particularly excited that
anyone can easily create agents to perform document tasks on their behalf. Customers can use PDF
Spaces with team members for more impactful knowledge sharing and collaboration. The combination
of PDF Spaces, AI Assistant and an integrated Express experience is available through Acrobat Studio, a
new, premium oﬀer in our Acrobat line-up. Early reception of Acrobat Studio has been strong, with
encouraging adoption and usage trends that highlight the signiﬁcant customer demand and opportunity
ahead.

8

We’re seeing rapid adoption of Adobe Express. In the enterprise, Express is helping organizations scale
content creation while maintaining brand consistency and quality. A great example is dentsu, which has
made Express a core part of its global marketing strategy. Adobe’s platform is being rolled out to all
68,000 employees worldwide and scaled across brands including Carat, iProspect, dentsu X, Dentsu
Creative, Tag and Merkle. By enabling creative teams to build content in Creative Cloud and share that
content through Express within an overall GenStudio solution, dentsu ensures brand alignment across
global teams while empowering marketers to create and remix their own content. This is driving
measurable impact at dentsu.
Other business highlights include:
•

Ending units for Acrobat AI Assistant grew more than 40 percent quarter over quarter and AI
Assistant engagement, with conversations and summarizations grew nearly 50 percent quarter
over quarter;

•

Acrobat Mobile ending ARR grew more than 30 percent year over year;

•

Over 14,000 organizations added Express in Q3 alone, a 4x increase in the quarter versus a year
ago;

•

Express usage within Acrobat nearly doubled quarter over quarter;

•

New Express integrations in Q3 include LinkedIn, Miro and Premier League;

•

Over an 80 percent year over year increase in the number of students with access to Express
Premium plans. We signed a partnership with the State of California to help prepare high school
and college students across the California State University system for careers in AI by providing
them with access to Express, Acrobat AI Assistant and Fireﬂy; and

•

Key customer wins include: Allegis Group, Deutscher Sparkassenverlag (DSV), FedEx, Intuit, KKR,
Lloyds Bank, Lockheed Martin, Provincial Government of Ontario, the State Government of
Virginia and Vivendi.

9

Our Creative Business had a strong quarter. Creativity has never been more important, and we continue
to lead by delivering the next generation of innovations to empower Creative Professionals and
Creators. As demand for content accelerates, our strategy is centered on making creativity more
accessible, more intelligent and more impactful. We are doing this by deeply integrating AI into our
ﬂagship applications, expanding creativity through new apps like Fireﬂy and providing powerful
automation to help customers scale their work. Together, these innovations are transforming how ideas
move from inspiration to execution and helping our customers create with greater speed, eﬃciency and
imagination.
We are continuing to infuse AI into our ﬂagship applications like Photoshop, Premiere Pro and Illustrator
to help onboard new users more quickly and make existing users far more productive. Recent examples
include the addition of a new Harmonize feature in Photoshop that blends composited objects with the
image by automatically adjusting lighting, colors and shadows. Harmonize has quickly become one of the
most used features in Photoshop. We released Project Turntable, a popular sneak from MAX last year,
into Illustrator, which helps users rotate their 2D artwork to accurately visualize diﬀerent angles,
eliminating a frequent and time-consuming task. Innovations like these directly translate into
measurable value for customers by cutting production times, enabling more content output, and raising
the overall quality of creative work and have driven strong migration to our new Creative Cloud Pro oﬀer.
The Fireﬂy app is a powerful, yet accessible AI production studio that helps creators deliver original
content faster than ever before. In Q3, we added a slew of new capabilities, including avatar generation,
sound eﬀects generation and updates to the growing list of integrated generative models. Fireﬂy
provides access to Adobe’s commercially safe generative AI models alongside a growing list of leading

10

third-party models, including Google’s Imagen, Veo and Gemini Flash 2.5, OpenAI’s GPT-image as well as,
Flux, Runway, Ideogram, Pika and Ray2, to name a few. This is enabling the Fireﬂy app to be the go-to
destination for content generation and editing for both creators using Adobe products for the ﬁrst time
as well as Creative professionals who have been using Creative Cloud applications for years.
We are delivering incredibly powerful automated content production capabilities through Fireﬂy Services
to enterprises of all sizes and across all verticals. These agentic services leverage Custom Models to
automate and personalize image, video and 3D content for marketing campaigns, ad creation and postproduction video work, all while maintaining brand consistency. Additionally, we delivered a no-code
interface that extends the power of Fireﬂy Services to studio and design teams. Fireﬂy Services are
available through GenStudio as well as to individuals through Fireﬂy app subscriptions. Consumption of
Fireﬂy Services and Custom Models grew 32 percent and 68 percent quarter over quarter, respectively.
Other business highlights include:
•

Continued new user acquisition of Creative Cloud with particular strength in emerging markets
like India which grew ending units 50 percent year over year;

•

Millions of downloads of the Fireﬂy App for mobile since launch;

•

Fireﬂy app MAU grew 30 percent quarter over quarter;

•

Fireﬂy app continues to attract next gen creators, with ﬁrst time Adobe subscribers through the
app growing 20 percent quarter over quarter;

•

Generative AI consumption accelerated, with 29 billion generations, and video generations
growing nearly 40 percent quarter over quarter; and

•

Key enterprise wins include Disney, FedEx, Home Depot, Meta, MetLife, Stagwell, Ulta and
Volkswagen.

We’re excited to welcome our community at Adobe MAX next month. We’ll showcase incredible
innovations that highlight amazing productivity features in our ﬂagship Creative Cloud applications,
breakthrough AI capabilities leveraging Fireﬂy and third-party models, new agentic experiences for
conversational editing, and signiﬁcant strides in content production automation for enterprises. MAX is
always a celebration of the community’s creativity and we look forward to sharing how Adobe magic is
transforming creative workﬂows and unlocking new opportunities.
I'll now turn it over to Anil.

11

ANIL CHAKRAVARTHY
Thanks, David. Hello, everyone.

Digital Experience had a strong Q3, achieving revenue of $1.48 billion for the quarter. Subscription
revenue in the quarter was $1.37 billion, representing 11 percent year-over-year growth, making us the
largest software provider in our category. Our success has been driven by having the most
comprehensive solution for digital marketing and customer experience, enabling the world’s largest
brands to deliver personalized experiences at scale.

12

AI is changing consumer behavior and transforming how businesses engage with consumers. Our most
recent Adobe Digital Index data, which is based on online transactions across over 1 trillion visits to U.S.
retail sites, shows that LLM traﬃc grew 4,700 percent year over year in July 2025.

The rapid changes in consumer behavior and expectations in the era of AI are forcing brands to reinvent
marketing and customer experience. Customer acquisition is being disrupted, as brand discovery shifts
from link-based search results to include LLMs. Brands need to win visibility through LLMs by providing
machine-readable content and real-time updates, while strengthening their direct relationship with their
consumers. With the rise of conversational interfaces, consumers increasingly expect that they can
accomplish any interaction with a brand through a single interface. Hyper-personalization and immersive
experiences will attract consumers to owned channels like websites and mobile apps, enabling brands to
drive deeper customer engagement and loyalty. Enterprises need an end-to-end, integrated customer
experience orchestration platform to achieve the scale, automation, agility and eﬃciency required in the
era of AI.
Adobe is uniquely positioned to help businesses orchestrate and deliver personalized customer
experiences by fusing creativity, marketing and agentic AI. Our AI-ﬁrst and AI-infused solutions spanning
GenStudio for content supply chain; AEP and Apps for customer engagement and loyalty; and Adobe
Experience Manager and LLM Optimizer for brand visibility and discovery, enable us to power customer
experience orchestration in the era of agentic AI.
We’re seeing accelerating adoption and usage of Adobe GenStudio, the most comprehensive content
supply chain solution, as enterprises drive content velocity with AI. New capabilities in Adobe GenStudio

13

for Performance Marketing are accelerating video and display ad campaign creation. Marketers will be
able to produce engaging short-form video ads using the commercially safe Fireﬂy Video Model. We
released new capabilities for display ad campaigns, including on-brand image generation with Fireﬂy, as
well as oﬀerings with Amazon Ads, Google Campaign Manager 360, LinkedIn and Meta to power
seamless campaign workﬂows.
We are innovating on our leading AEP marketing and customer experience platform with built-in agentic
functionality, empowering marketers to deliver digital experiences with greater agility and eﬃciency. Our
intelligent agents understand intent, reason and recommend actions to drive outcomes across content,
data, and journeys. Purpose-built agents are embedded in our core apps and new AI-ﬁrst applications,
helping brands unlock greater eﬃciency and precision, automate workﬂows and personalize experiences
at scale. We launched the ﬁrst phase of AEP Agent Orchestrator in Q3, empowering businesses to build,
manage and orchestrate AI agents from Adobe and third parties. These capabilities power the Data
Insights Agent and Product Support Agent, which are generally available now and add to our growing
portfolio of agents.
Our newest innovation is Adobe LLM Optimizer, available in early access. As customers and prospects
increasingly turn to generative AI search and assistants for brand discovery, LLM Optimizer helps shape
how brands show up in results which is driving inﬂuence, visibility and qualiﬁed traﬃc.
Other business highlights include:
•

Strong demand for AEP and native apps with Q3 subscription revenue growing over 40 percent
year over year;

•

Continued adoption and momentum for AEP AI Assistant with 70 percent of eligible AEP
customers using AI Assistant;

•

Expanded partnership announcements at Cannes including Accenture, dentsu, IBM, Infosys,
Omnicom and Publicis;

•

Industry analyst recognition, including being named a leader in two Forrester Wave reports for
Customer Data Platforms for B2B and Digital Analytics Solutions as well as two IDC MarketScapes
for Worldwide AI-Enabled Marketing Platforms for Enterprise and Midsize customers;

•

Strong 60 percent year-over-year growth in cross-cloud deals, demonstrating the value of the
Adobe integrated platform including GenStudio;

•

Over 40 percent of our top 50 enterprise accounts doubled their ARR spend since the start of
FY23; and

14

•

Key global customer wins, including Amgen, Australia Post, Dick’s Sporting Goods, Disney, FedEx,
Intuit, Lloyds Bank, Macy’s, MetLife, Microsoft, Morgan Stanley, Qatar Airways and Stagwell.

We are excited to showcase our latest innovations, including AI-ﬁrst apps and AI-infused products, at
MAX next month. These advancements further strengthen our position as the leader in customer
experience orchestration in the era of agentic AI.
I'll now pass it to Dan.

15

DAN DURN
Thanks, Anil.
Today, I will start by summarizing Adobe’s performance in Q3 ﬁscal 2025, highlighting growth drivers
across our businesses, and I’ll ﬁnish with our targets.

Q3 FY2025 Performance
In Q3, we exceeded our targets and once again delivered double digit top-line and EPS growth. We are
driving demand by infusing AI into our category-leading solutions as well as delivering new AI-ﬁrst
products across Business Professionals and Consumers, Creative Professionals and Creators, and
Marketing Professionals.

16

Adobe achieved revenue of $5.99 billion, which represents 11 percent year-over-year growth as
reported, or 10 percent in constant currency. GAAP diluted earnings per share in Q3 was $4.18 and nonGAAP diluted earnings per share was $5.31, reﬂecting 11 percent and 14 percent year-over-year growth,
respectively.
Adobe AI-inﬂuenced ARR surpassed $5 billion and we expect it to continue to rise as a percent of our
business. Notably, ARR from our new AI-ﬁrst products, including Fireﬂy, Acrobat AI Assistant, and
GenStudio for Performance Marketing, has already achieved our end-of-year target of over $250 million.
Third quarter business and ﬁnancial highlights included:
•

Digital Media revenue of $4.46 billion;

•

Digital Media ending ARR of $18.59 billion, growing 11.7 percent year over year;

•

Digital Experience revenue of $1.48 billion;

•

Cash ﬂows from operations of $2.20 billion, which is a record for Q3; and

•

Exiting the quarter, Remaining Performance Obligations (RPO) were $20.44 billion,
growing 13 percent year over year, or 12 percent in constant currency and cRPO
growing 10 percent as reported and in constant currency.

Digital Media
In our Digital Media segment, we achieved 12 percent year-over-year revenue growth as reported, or 11
percent in constant currency. We exited the quarter with Digital Media ARR growing 11.7 percent year

17

over year in constant currency, driven by strong demand for higher-value AI-infused oﬀerings including
Creative Cloud Pro and Acrobat as well as AI-ﬁrst products including Fireﬂy and Acrobat AI Assistant.
Within Digital Media, Q3 growth drivers for Business Professionals and Consumers included:
•

Monthly active users of Acrobat and Express grew approximately 25 percent year-over-year,
fueling our freemium growth strategy;

•

Strong usage and monetization of our Acrobat oﬀerings including AI Assistant and our newly
launched Acrobat Studio;

•

4x increase in businesses adding Express in the quarter versus a year ago;

•

Robust performance in the education sector driven by access to Express, Acrobat AI Assistant
and Fireﬂy for students, faculty, and staﬀ; and

•

Strong ARR book of business growth across all routes to market and geographies.

Within Digital Media, Q3 growth drivers for Creative Professionals and Creators included:
•

Increasing demand and usage of AI-innovation in our ﬂagship applications like Photoshop,
Premiere Pro, and Illustrator as part of our new Creative Cloud Pro oﬀering;

•

Strong new subscription adoption of the Fireﬂy App by individuals and Fireﬂy Services by
enterprises;

•

Support of Fireﬂy and third-party models in Creative Cloud applications drove accelerating
generative AI usage quarter over quarter; and

•

Strong ARR book of business growth across all routes to market and geographies.

18

Digital Experience
Turning to our Digital Experience segment, in Q3 we achieved revenue of $1.48 billion, which represents
9 percent year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency. Digital Experience subscription
revenue was $1.37 billion, growing 11 percent year over year as reported and in constant currency.
Within Digital Experience, Q3 growth drivers for Marketing Professionals included:
•

AEP and Apps ending ARR growing greater than 40 percent year over year as
enterprises focus on delivering personalization at scale for customer engagement;

•

Strong adoption of AEM including Sites Optimizer as marketers increase relevancy of
their owned websites across both ‘search’ and LLM platforms;

•

Increasing demand for GenStudio, our comprehensive content supply chain solution,
as enterprises drive content velocity and AI automation;

•

Continued strength in customer retention and expansion; and

•

Strong execution in deals over $1 million across key verticals and geographies.

19

Customer Group Results and Insights
Our growth strategy is focused on serving the diverse needs of our customers across both
“Business Professionals and Consumers” and “Creative and Marketing Professionals”. As we
previously outlined, our continued success will be driven by orienting our innovations, oﬀerings,
monetization models and go-to-market around our customer groups.

For the Business Professionals and Consumers Group, subscription revenue was $1.65 billion,
which represents 15 percent year-over-year growth as reported, or 14 percent in constant
currency.
For the Creative and Marketing Professionals Group, subscription revenue was $4.12 billion,
which represents 11 percent year-over-year growth, or 10 percent in constant currency.

20

In the enterprise at the intersection of creativity and marketing, Adobe’s integrated and AIinfused solutions are transforming the entire content supply chain to address digital content
workﬂow and planning, creation and production, asset management, delivery and activation,
and reporting and insights. This massive market represents an opportunity to drive both creative
seat and ARPU growth as well as demand for our content production and marketing automation
solutions.
•

We are driving strong adoption of our automation solutions in the enterprise with
GenStudio. Our Workfront, Frame, AEM Assets, Fireﬂy Services, and GenStudio for
Performance Marketing products - which are key components of the integrated
GenStudio solution - now exceed $1 billion in ARR growing over 25 percent year over
year;

•

In the enterprise, we delivered over 60 percent year-over-year growth of One Adobe
deals, reﬂecting cross-cloud adoption and deepening strategic partnerships with our
customers.

In addition, historical subscription revenue for these customer groups is available in the Adobe
Investor Relations data sheet under ‘Supplementary Customer Group Data’ dating back to FY23.

Other Financial Highlights
Turning to other ﬁnancial disclosures, Adobe’s eﬀective tax rate in Q3 was 19.0 percent on a GAAP basis
and 18.5 percent on a non-GAAP basis.

21

Our cash ﬂow from operations in the quarter was a Q3 record of $2.20 billion, and ending cash and
short-term investment position exiting Q3 was $5.94 billion.
In Q3, we entered into a share repurchase agreement totaling $2.50 billion, and we currently have $8.40
billion remaining of our $25 billion authorization granted in March 2024.
Targets
Let me now turn to our ﬁnancial targets, which assume current macroeconomic conditions.

For Q4 FY25, we are targeting:
•

Total Adobe revenue of $6.075 to $6.125 billion;

•

Digital Media segment revenue of $4.53 to $4.56 billion;

•

Digital Experience segment revenue of $1.495 to $1.515 billion;

•

Digital Experience subscription revenue of $1.395 to $1.410 billion;

•

GAAP earnings per share of $4.27 to $4.32; and

•

Non-GAAP earnings per share of $5.35 to $5.40.

For Q4, we expect non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 45.5 percent and a non-GAAP tax rate
of approximately 18.5 percent.
Based on our momentum, we are pleased to raise our Digital Media ending ARR growth target, and given
our Q4 targets, we are raising the full year total revenue and GAAP and Non-GAAP EPS targets.

22

For FY25, we are now targeting:
•

Total Adobe revenue of $23.65 to $23.70 billion;

•

Digital Media segment revenue of $17.56 to $17.59 billion;

•

Digital Media ending ARR book of business growth of 11.3 percent year over year;

•

Digital Experience segment revenue of $5.84 to $5.86 billion;

•

Digital Experience subscription revenue of $5.39 to $5.41 billion;

•

GAAP earnings per share of $16.53 to $16.58; and

•

Non-GAAP earnings per share of $20.80 to $20.85.

Summary
In summary, Adobe’s Q3 performance demonstrates strong execution in an AI-ﬁrst world. Our focus on
product leadership and customer-centric innovation positions us to deliver durable and proﬁtable
growth. We are excited to see customers adopt and utilize our comprehensive suite of diﬀerentiated AIﬁrst and AI-infused solutions. Looking ahead, I am conﬁdent that our investments and strategic focus will
deliver long-term shareholder value.
Shantanu, back to you.

23

SHANTANU NARAYEN
Thanks, Dan.
I’m extremely energized by my constant engagement with our world-class product teams and excited
about our innovative roadmap to deliver Adobe magic to an ever-increasing number of customers. In my
interactions with companies around the world, it’s clear that they’re investing in Adobe as their missioncritical creative AI technology partner.
I look forward to seeing you at Adobe MAX, where we will showcase incredible innovations across
creativity, marketing and AI and host an investor Q&A session.
Thank you, and we will now take your questions. Operator.

24

25

