Equifax Launches Credit Abuse Risk
Model to Help Protect Lenders Against
the Rising Financial Impact of First-Party
Fraud

NEWS PROVIDED BY
Equifax Inc. 
Jan 30, 2026, 07:45 ET

New Behavioral Insights Detect Potential Credit Washing or Loan Stacking Activities to Drive More
Confident Lending Decisions

ATLANTA, Jan. 30, 2026 /PRNewswire/ -- Equifax® (NYSE: EFX) today announced the launch of Credit
Abuse Risk, a new predictive model that uses FCRA-regulated data and is designed to help protect

lenders against first-party fraud and drive more confident lending decisions.

As the financial impact of first-party fraud continues to rise, Credit Abuse Risk was developed to uncover
atypical patterns indicative of two types of fraudulent activities: loan stacking, when an individual quickly
applies for multiple loans with no intent to repay those loans, and credit washing, when a person tries to
remove accurate, but negative information from a credit report. These patterns can be identified during
prequalification offers, account origination, or portfolio review. This allows lenders to modify loan terms
based on FCRA-compliant insights.



"By focusing on application behavior in real-time, Credit Abuse Risk quickly helps to reduce the potential
for fraud and related costs," said Felipe Castillo, Chief Product Officer for U.S. Information Solutions at
Equifax. "This supports a more confident lending environment, and helps keep credit available for
consumers."

Credit Abuse Risk features include:

Enhanced insights: The model focuses on behavioral indicators that provide a clear view of atypical

credit activity.
Targeted decisioning: Specifically designed to address the lifecycle of fraud, from the building of

inflated credit profiles to a sudden influx of disputes on unpaid accounts that falls outside the normal
range, without limiting the important consumer protections to correct inaccurate or incomplete credit
data.
Comprehensive portfolio protection: Provides lenders with important insights across all credit tiers.
Actionable intelligence: Allows lenders to make real-time, regulated decisions on credit terms for a

consumer, providing an FCRA-compliant score with adverse action reason codes.

A Comprehensive, Layered Defense

Credit Abuse Risk is a vital component of the Equifax layered fraud defense strategy to help inform better
lending decisions. It works alongside Synthetic Identity Risk tools to provide a complete view of identity
legitimacy and hidden repayment risk.

For more information on Credit Abuse Risk and the Equifax suite of fraud solutions, please visit our
website. Financial Institutions who prefer to validate effectiveness on their own historical data can evaluate

the Credit Abuse Risk model through a secure, data-driven evaluation test.

ABOUT EQUIFAX INC.

At Equifax (NYSE: EFX), we believe knowledge drives progress. As a global data, analytics, and technology
company, we play an essential role in the global economy by helping financial institutions, companies,
employers, and government agencies make critical decisions with greater confidence. Our unique blend of
differentiated data, analytics, and cloud technology drives insights to power decisions to move people



forward. Headquartered in Atlanta and supported by nearly 15,000 employees worldwide, Equifax operates
or has investments in 24 countries in North America, Central and South America, Europe, and the Asia
Pacific region. For more information, visit Equifax.com.

FOR MORE INFORMATION:

Tiffany Smith for Equifax
mediainquiries@equifax.com

SOURCE Equifax Inc.

21

%

more press release
views with

Request a Demo



