October 2025 
Bond Market Focus: Yield 
Curves and Mean 
Reverting Rate 
Expectations 

Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 

Executive Summary 
Unlike in equity markets, where investors and analysts tend to extrapolate 
returns even at long horizons, in bond markets investors and economists exhibit 
mean-reverting rate expectations. There has been a decades -long debate on 
whether the evolving yield curve shape mainl y reflects the markets rate 
expectations or time -varying term premia. The answer is shifting towards rate 
expectations, even if those expectations were wrong for decades predicting 
rising rates which did not materialize. The new debate is whether those ra te 
expectations were irrational or reflected rational learning when investors faced 
repeated one-way surprises.
Antti Ilmanen 
Principal and Global 
Co-Head of Portfolio 
Solutions Group 
The author thanks Thomas Maloney for helpful dialogues and Mehul Sachdev for 
excellent research assistance. 
Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 2 

Introduction
The previous paper in our Understanding Return 
Expectations series turned from equity market s to 
a bond market focus , and drilled into the key 
determinants of 10 -year Treasury yields with the 
help of survey data. This paper focuses on the 
determinants of the yield curve. Yield curve 
steepness or slope is often proxied by the yield 
difference between the 10-year Treasury and a 
short-term (say, 3-month) Treasury bill. 
The y ield curve (YC) reflects some mix of the 
markets expectations of future changes in 
interest rates and required term premia (also 
called bond risk premia, duration premia, or 
maturity premia). The YC is steep if the market 
expects rising short -term rates and/or requires a 
large compensation for bearing interest rate risk. 
The YC is inverted if the market expects rate 
declines and/or is prepared to pay a negative term 
premium (for example, because long bonds are 
exceptional safe -haven assets or are requ ired to 
match pension funds long-duration liabilities). In 
practice, the YC tends to be upward sloping but its 
slope varies over time and sometimes is inverted 
for prolonged periods. 
Investors and academics have long debated and 
tried to estimate how much the YC reflects rate 
expectations versus term premia. The mix likely 
varies over time, but for decades central bankers 
and investors talked as if the YC was only driven 
by rate expectations (the pure expectations 
hypothesis). Yet, empirical research in the 1980s 
and beyond suggested that evolving YC shape 
reflects time -varying term premia (which would 
imply random -walk rate expectations , and thus 
unchanged rates as the base case). 
This conclusion deserves a reassessment. Survey 
data give us direct estimates of interest rate 

1 I proposed salience as a key reason for this difference in expectations formation patterns across the two asset classes. Bonds are quoted in yiel ds, 
making forward-looking and mildly contrarian mindset more natural, whereas stocks are quoted in prices and mainly discussed in terms of realized 
expectations and they can differ meaningfully 
from unchanged rate forecasts. Economists 
consensus predicted in vain rising rates through 
several decades of falling rates since the early 
1980s and the zero -rate era of 2010s. These 
persistent forecast errors look foolish in hindsight 
but were not exclusive to economists; the market 
(YC shape) and some investor surveys made 
similar errors. These fore cast errors in turn 
boosted the YCs ability to predict future bond 
returns besides any time-varying term premia. 
I will show evidence that the time-variation in the 
slope and sign of the YC is largely explained by 
mean-reverting rate expectations: steep YC amid 
low short rates (say, 2010s) and inverted YC amid 
high short rates (say, 2023). The expectations were 
often correct in capturing predictably 
countercyclical monetary policy , but they missed 
the secular decline in rates. 
The next question is whether the forecasters were 
irrational or whether they can be partly excused by 
the abnormal phase of truly surprising rate 
declines, one decade after another. I suggested 
this interpretation in my books, and new 
academic research confirms that a rational 
Bayesian learner would have made similar 
forecasts (and errors). I conclude by arguing that 
while both equity and bond investors have made 
persistent forecast errors in recent decades, it 
seems likely that the former errors will conti nue, 
while the latter wont. 
This series has highlighted the extrapolative 
nature of equity investors and analysts return 
and growth expectations, and Part 3 contrasted 
this pattern with the contrarian nature of mean -
reverting rate expectations in bonds. 1 This paper 
explores the latter story, while enhancing our 
Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 3 

understanding of the key drivers of YC steepness. 
Part 8 described our best understanding of the 
yield levels drivers by decomposing yields with the 
help of survey data (separation of rate 
expectations and required term premia as well as 
separation of inflation and real rate expectations).
What Drives the Yield Curve? Alternative 
Theories
The Appendix covers some simple bond math on 
bond yields and yield curves. The crux of it is that 
the yield curve reflects markets rate expectations 
and required bond risk premia and theres been 
a decades-long debate on how much of each. That 
is, which of the two components has a larger 
influence on the YC shape? To interpret the YC, 
one can usefully contrast two hypotheses: 
 The classic pure expectations hypothesis 
(PEH) makes the extreme assumption that 
bond risk premia are zero and is consistent 
with the idea of investors risk -neutrality. One 
can then virtually read the markets rate 
expectations off the YC. According to the PEH, 
a particularly steep YC indicates that the 
market expects short rates and bond yields to 
rise sharply (to exactly offset longer bonds 
initial yield advantage; thus, all bond 
investments have the same expected return). 
 The random walk hypothesis makes the 
opposite extreme assumption, that an upward-
sloping yield curve only reflects required 
compensation for bearing duration risk and 
does not contain any information about the 
markets rate expectations.
Empirical Evidence on the Yield Curves 
Predictive Ability
Since both the markets rate expectations and 
required risk premia are unobservable, 
economists have long debated the relative 
importance of the two components. For decades, 
investors and central bankers seemed to take the 
PEH as a given, equating YC shape with markets 
rate expectations, despite accumulating contrary 
evidence. Yet, when empirical studies in the 1980s 
(e.g., Fama -Bliss (1987)) ran direct horseraces 
between the two hypotheses, the results were 

returns, making extrapolative rearview -mirror mindset more natural. 
2 Macaulay (1938) found already before WWII that capital losses due to bond yield rises do not seem to offset an initial yield advantage amid upward -
sloping YCs. Instead, capital gains tend to augment it due to yield falls. Fama -Bliss (1987) confirmed this finding with post-war data. 
3 See Ilmanen (2011) chapters 9 and 22. A review shows that the rolling decadal correlation between the YC and near -term excess bond return was 
pretty consistently positive over the past century. The two exceptions were after sharp bond bear markets in 1958 -59 and 2021-22 which began 
clearly in favor of the random walk hypothesis: an 
upward-sloping YC predicts empirically high 
future excess bond returns rather than rising 
yields.2 
Empirical patterns may have weakened over time, 
but newer analysis confirms that the YC predicts 
near-term excess bond returns rather than near -
term bond yield changes. The YC has positive 
correlation with the former and negative with the 
latter.3 While the YC is a poor forecaster of near -
Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 4 
term changes in long-dated yields (wrong sign for 
PEH!), it is better at forecasting gradual changes 
in short -rates over multi -year horizons (more in 
line with PEH, see Campbell-Shiller (1991)). 
Return predictability evidence in other asset 
classes reinforced idea that the YC predicts excess 
bond returns. It was just one of the positive -carry 
strategies that seemed to work in the long run, 
providing consistent evidence against risk-neutral 
models which assumed that initial yield 
advantages would be offset by changing 
fundamentals or capital losses.4 
Given all this evidence, the academic consensus 
gradually shifted away from the PEH and toward 
time-varying risk premia, but the pendulum 
probably shifted too far. 5 I will argue that mean -
reverting rate expectations have a greater role in 
YC behavior than the academic consensus 
appreciates, and there are signs of that consensus 
changing.
Exhibit 1. U.S. Yield Curve History, with Its Two Components, January 1983 August 2025 
Source: AQR, NBER, St. Louis Fed FRED database.
Challenges came from many directions: 
 When survey data made it possible to get a
cleaner proxy of the BRP, it became apparent
that the YC is a poor proxy for the long -run
BRP, despite its near -term return prediction
ability.6 The survey -based BRPs post -war
evolution shares broadly the mountain shape
during a very steep YC. 
4 The best-known parallel was the Uncovered Interest Parity hypothesis in foreign exchange markets which assumed that currency depreciat ion would 
offset any initial short -rate (carry) advantage across countries. Empirical evidence in currency and bond market s and broader evidence of carry 
strategies long-run profitability was consistent with positive carry predicting future excess returns rather than being offset by predicted r ate or 
fundamental changes. It was debated, though, whether the cause was rational ly time-varying risk premia or irrational biased expectations. See Cochrane 
(2011), Ilmanen (2011, chapters 13 and 22), and Koijen etal. (2018). 
5 The same evidence guided us a decade ago to use so -called rolling yields for bonds in our capital market assumptions, effectively assuming unchanged 
(random-walk) yield curves, which gives long bonds carry and rolldown advantage amid upward -sloping yield curves. (We may revisit this choice and give 
some weight to PEH by using at most partial rolldown return.) For our cash assumptions for the next decade, we include a mix of random-walk 
assumption and the PEH, recently adding survey -based forecasts as a thir d input. 
6 See Best-Byrne-Ilmanen (1998), Kim-Wright (2006), and Ilmanen (2011). 
7 See Chapter 9 in Ilmanen (2011) and Part 8 of this series. 
of bond yields (see Exhibit 1): a secular rise up 
to the 1980s and a subsequent secular fall. The 
mountain shape is apparently related to level -
related inflation uncertainty and the resulting 
inflation risk premium.7 In contrast, the YC has 
not exhibited any secular uptrend or 
downtrend but lots of cyclical variation 
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
16%
-2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
1925 1935 1945 1955 1965 1975 1985 1995 2005 2015 2025
Rate Level
10Y-3M Slope
NBER-Defined Recession 10Y-3M Slope (LHS) 3M Rate (RHS) 10Y Rate (RHS)
Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 5 

between -200bps and +400 bps. Worse, the YC 
was deeply inverted when inflation uncertainty 
and the survey -based BRP peaked in the early 
1980s. Conversely, the YC was steep in the 
2010s when the survey -based BRP was 
negative. 
 While the YC kept predicting future bond 
returns reasonably well until 2022, many other 
carry strategies disappointed during and after 
the Global Financial Crisis, which weakened 
the broad supportive evidence. 
 Academic researchers came up with rational 
learning models which explained well why 
forecast errors in rate direction had been so 
persistent: truly unpredictable structural 
changes. This analysis suggests that the YCs 
ability to predict future bond return s had been 
boosted by these forecast errors and that there 
is little reason to assume continued systematic 
errors. We should still expect YC to predict 
bond returns, but just not as well.
The Role of Mean-Reverting Rate 
Expectations
Exhibit 1 shows that the US YC has tended to be 
upward sloping, i.e., positive. The past -century 
average YC slope is 1.4%, likely reflecting a 
positive average bond risk premium (term 
premium). YC inversions have been rare but 
famously predictive of forthc oming recessions, 
probably indicative of tight Fed monetary policy 
to battle high inflation. 8 Markets and economists 
have been pretty good at predicting short -rate 
moves related to monetary policy cycles. In 
contrast, they have been less able to predict the 
secular uptrend and downtrend in yields. The YC 
was not particularly steep during the rising -rate 
decades (1945-1981 average 1.0%), nor particularly 
flat during the falling -rate decades (1982 -2021 
average 1.8%), if anything the reverse. 
So-called haircharts became , in the 2010s , a 
popular way to visualize the forecasting failure of 
both economists and markets when it came to the 

8 The lead time between YC inversion and a subsequent recession has been increasing in recent decades. The latest inversion beg an in late 2022 and 
there has been no US recession by late 2025. Before the 2020s, the only false alarm since the 1950s is 1966 whe n YC inversion was followed by a 
mere slowdown as Vietnam war -related fiscal expansion supported economic growth. See AQR (2019) for further discussion. 
9 This chart is personal for me, and not just because Ive tried to understand the yield curve for several decades. Convenientl y, the Fed updates regularly 
the daily spot rate histories and breakeven forward rate paths of many maturities based on the Gurkayn ak-Sack-Wright (2007) study. The sample period 
happens to cover my lifetime and I chose midyear forward paths to start each year on my birthday (displaying more frequent ha irs, i.e. forward paths, 
would make the chart very messy). Recall that the forward p aths reflect markets expectation of future short rates if we assume there are no term 
premia. Thus the forward paths are closely related to the YC shape; if the 5Y -1Y slope is positive, the hair slopes upwards. 
direction of rates. We already showed in Exhibit 1 
of Part 3 charts of both 10-year yields and 3-month 
rates falling to ever lower levels in the 1990s and 
2000s, and then staying near zero in the 2010s 
until 2021while economists consensus forecasts 
seemingly always predicted rising rates. Being so 
persistently wrong in forecasts led to questions 
like how could they (be so dumb)? or worse. 
We will now show that market -based forecasts 
(inferred from the forward rate path implied by 
the YC) were no smarter than economists. 
However, we will also offer a sympathetic 
explanation of what drove these expectations and 
why they may have been rational at the time the 
forecasts were made. 
Exhibit 2 shows the hairchart history of US one -
year Treasury yield and its forward (expected) 
paths each midyear. 9 The prevalence of rising 
hairs is evident even during the falling -rate 
Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 6 

decades. However, when I mark in red the rare 
exceptions when the hairs are inverted, it becomes 
apparent that such inversions only occur when 
the one-year rate is abnormally high compared to 
its recent past. And those inversions were typically 
followed by a falling one -year rateso not such a 
bad predictor after all? 
It seems like the variation in YC slope over time 
mainly reflects mean -reverting rate expectations 
(plus a relatively stable term premium which gives 
the YC and the hairs their typical upward slope). 
This is very different from the Fama -Bliss (1987) 
finding that the YC shape variation over time 
reflects time-varying term premia, which became 
academic conventional wisdom in recent 
decades. 
Eyeballing the hairs in Exhibit 2 hints at a further 
human pattern. Everyone gets sometimes 
humbled by the markets and such humbling can 
reduce our (over)confidence. Instead of seeing 
particularly strong mean reversion forecasts in 
1981 we see only mildly l ower rate predictions 
from the 1981-82 double-digit rate levels, and even 
a predicted rise from 1984. Having been humbled 
in the 1970s by missing the rates uptrend, 
investors no longer made as confident mean -
reversion forecasts. Something similar happened 
in 2020-21 when rates were at record lows and yet 
investors mean reversion expectations were more 
modest after a humbling experience with past 
predictions of rising rates. Even with our 
expectations formation process on long -run 
returns, what have you d one for me lately 
matters too much.
Exhibit 2. A Big Mistake? Hairchart of One-Year Treasury Yield and Its 5-Year Forward Rate 
Paths Each Year, June 30, 1961 June 30, 2025 

Source: https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/feds/the-us-treasury-yield-curve-1961-to-the-present.html. 
Exhibit 3 tells the same story in a different way. It 
plots the YC with a detrended short-term rate (the 
latter on a second axis with an inverted scale). The 
close co-movement is visually impressive. It also 
explains why the yield curve was inverted in 
2022-24people expected normalization toward 
the near-zero rates of 2010s since our most salient 

10 The chart shows the negative correlation of -0.7 between the two series. We can also sort the detrended short rate series into five quintiles (ranging 
from -2.6% to +2.6%); the average YC for these quintiles are 2.7%, 1.7%, 1.6%, 1.0%, 0.2%. 
memories are for the past decade. Just as an 
inverted YC is typical when short rates are 
elevated relative to recent history, an abnormally 
steep YC (like in the early 2010s) is typical when 
short rates are abnormally low relative to recent 
history.10 
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
16%
1961 1966 1971 1976 1981 1986 1991 1996 2001 2006 2011 2016 2021 2026
Yield
5-Year Forward Rate Curves (red if inverted)
Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 7 

This evidence strongly suggests that the evolution 
of the YC over time mainly reflects mean -
reverting rate expectations. However, the mean 
has not been constant over time. It shifted 
gradually higher for decades until 1981 and then 
shifted gradually lower, reflecting secular trends 
in both expected inflation and expected real rates 
(as discussed in Part 8). As shown in Part 3, similar 
patterns hold for survey -based economist 
forecasts as for market forward rates, and for both 
short rates and long yields. Further analysis (not 
shown here) suggests that mean reversion is 
stronger in real rate expectations than in inflation 
expectations.
Exhibit 3. Mean-Reverting Rate Expectations Drive YC Evolution, January 1925 June 2025 

Source: St. Louis Fed (FRED database), AQR.
Mean-Reverting Expectations Turned Out 
Wrong, Ex Post 
So, mean-reverting rate expectations can explain 
well how bond investors form their expectations, 
and Ill soon return to the subject of this pattern 
being very different from extrapolative equity 
return expectations. But lets first deal with that 
question, How could they get it so wrong for so 
long? Economists and the markets predictions 
of rate rises (back toward past norms) were 
persistently wrong from the 1980s to 2021. The 
anticipated mean reversion did not materialize 
until 2022. 
Some academics ignored survey data and were 
impressed by the YCs ability to predict near-term 
bond returns taken as evidence of rationally 
time-varying required term premia. However, 
once academics turned to survey -based rate 
expectations, it became clear that there were 
persistent forecast errors; both survey and market 
forecasts overpredicted short rates for multiple 
decades (after having s ystematically 
underpredicted them before the 1980s). The initial 
interpretation was some form of irrationality in 
expectations. However, the most recent research 
points to a more sympathetic explanation: 
rational learning about sl ow structural shifts 
which rates experienced over these decades is 
really hard. 
-6%
-4%
-2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%-8%
-6%
-4%
-2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
1925 1935 1945 1955 1965 1975 1985 1995 2005 2015 2025
3M minus its rolling 10Y avg 
(inverted scale)
10Y-3M Slope
10Y-3M Slope (LHS)
3M Rate Minus Its Rolling 10Y
Avg (RHS, inverted)
correl -0.7
Inverted YC in 1981 and 2023 reflects 
mean-reverting expectations of rate falls 
when bill rates are high vs decade-average 
Steep YC in 1992 and 2010 reflects 
mean-reverting expectations of rate rises 
when bill rates are low vs decade-average 
Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 8 

The return predictability regressions which 
suggested that the YC predicts bond returns due to 
time-varying term premia rely on the so-called 
FIRE assumption (full information and rational 
expectations). The full information assumption 
can embed substantial hindsight, in this case 
about the interest rate process and the gradual 
shift in the rate mean , first higher until 1981 and 
then lower. In real time, investors and 
econometricians hardly recognized this shift (it 
would have been very valuable information), yet 
such hindsighted knowledge is presumed to be 
part of full information. 
A new line of research allows more realism by 
recognizing that investors and econometricians 
face incomplete information about the rates 
process, and they must gradually learn about any 
changes. Gradual structural changes in an 
unobservable serieslike long-run target mean of 
inflation or real ratesare particularly pernicious. 
A recent study by Farmer , Nakamura and 
Steinsson (2023) shows that a Bayesian rational 
learner could have made just the kind of forecasts 
(and persistent forecast errors) weve described 
above and would have only learned very slowly 
about the gradually shifting rate level. The 
observed forecast errors are thus not a sign of 
irrational expectations , but of the exceptionally 
persistent one -way surprises that seem almost 
perfectly designed to wrong-foot forecasters and 
make them look foolish with hindsight.11
Contrasting Bond and Equity Return 
Expectations Formation 
Bond investors ( as proxied by the YC) have had 
some success in predicting mean -reverting 
cyclical variation in rate levels, likely related to 
monetary policy cycles. In contrast, they have 
made systematic forecast errors in not foreseeing 
the secular shifts in the long -run rate mean. 
Whether these forecast errors reflected 
irrationality or slow rational learning of structural 
changes (my money is on the latter), they boosted 
the YCs ability to predict near-term bond returns. 
Simply put, the upward -sloping YC predicted 
rising rates partly by mean -reversion logic, yet 
repeated economic surprises meant that the 

11 I feel a little smug in having made a similar argument about rational learning amid structural uncertainty in both my 2011 an d 2022 books, 
emphasizing the difficulty of making predictions when the long -run rate level and the persistence of the rate generat ion process undergo significant 
changes. Many studiesBacchetta et al. (2009), Piazzesi-Salomao-Schneider (2015), Bauer-Rudebusch (2020), Crump et al. (2023) and Farmer -
Nakamura -Steinsson (2024)highlight the usefulness of survey evidence and the difficulty posed by gradual structural changes for real -time 
forecasters (unlike econometricians who are given unrealistic foresight). Survey evidence suggests that much of the observed asset return predictability 
in classic predictive regressions is not related to ex ante (survey -based) risk premia but rather to systematic forecasting errors perhaps just to 
hindsight by the econometrician running those predictive regressions. 
12 To be clear, the YC has some return predictive ability we can still count on just the average positive YC slope and average term premium, plus likely 
some predictable time variation in returns but recent decades displayed more bond return predictability than we should expect in the future. Looking 
ahead, a survey-based BRP should be a better predictor of near -term bond returns than the YC because it cleans the latter from the rates expectation 
content. 
predicted mean reversion never happened (well, 
until 2022). Thus, long bonds positive -carry 
advantage amid an upward -sloping YC was not 
offset by capital losses due to predicted rate rises.12 
As we have seen, academics long attributed the 
YCs predictive ability fully to rationally time -
varying term premia and ignored the role of mean-
reverting rate expectations. This may explain why 
the contrasting expectations formation patterns
contrarian for bonds, extrapolative for equities 
has gone unnoticed. Part 3 of this series focused 
on that contrast by arguing that while rates 
investors tend to expect mean reversion after a 
Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 9 

bullish (falling-rates) decade, equity analysts and 
investors tend to extrapolate more of the same 
after a bullish decade. Part 3 also explored reasons 
for this difference and conjectured that salience 
arguments dominate. 13 Bonds are quoted and 
discussed in yields, making bond investors 
naturally forward-looking and mildly contrarian. 
Equities are quoted in prices and mainly 
discussed in terms of past returns, making equity 
investors naturally more prone to a rearview 
mirror mindset and extrapolative expectations. 
Thoughtful readers might challenge me on my 
critical attitude toward equity analysts 
overoptimistic and overextrapolative growth 
forecasts, compared to my sympathetic attitude 
toward bond investors persistent overpredictions 
of rates in recent decades. Both groups have made 
systematic forecast errors, but it is the equity 
analysts EPS growth forecasts that I say we 
should avoid as input s to capital market 
assumptions. Why? The key difference is that 
equity analysts tend to make irrational forecasts 
which actually have negative market timing 
ability. We should not poison our objective 
expected return estimates by incorporating 
analysts extra bullishness at times like 2000 and 
2021 after a strong decade when market 
valuations are very high. In contrast, bond 
investors rates forecast errors were likely not 
irrational but a case of rational learning amid 
abnormal structural changes, so we should not 
expect these systematic errors to repeat in the 
future.14 In short, we can explain past forecast 
errors in both earnings growth and interest rates, 
but we can justify only the latter.
Appendix: Understanding Yield Curve 
Components 
This section presents simple bond math on 
returns, yields and the curve. 
Realized and expected bond return 
I first describe some identities before turning to 
theories and evidence (which are more open to 
debate). For illustration, I use a 10-year maturity 
to represent the long bond and a 1 -year maturity 
for the short-term rate.15 

13 Part 3 further explored the possibility that investors have simply learned from history that they should be multi -year contrarian with bonds and multi -
year extrapolative with equities. However, historical evidence on long -run return autocorrelations sugges ts the opposite. (Interestingly, real bond yields 
have exhibited a centuries -long downtrend but cyclical variation around this trend. The zero -rate floor in nominal rates may in any case stop this 
downtrend.) 
14 There will inevitably be errors but we dont know their direction in advance. Anyway, the past errors augmented the YCs abil ity to predict future 
returns instead of damaging it. If anything, the new emphasis on the role of mean -reverting expectations suggests that we may consider modifying our 
bond CMA approach. Our CMA for 10-year Treasuries is the rolling yield which assumes that an unchanged YC is the best base case, so bonds should 
earn all of their carry and roll advantage. We made this design choice more than a decade ago, guided by the Fama -Bliss evidence. If we now think that 
the YC partly reflects required term premia and partly rate expectations, we could move away from this corner solution and as sume that part of the carry 
and roll advantage will get offset. In a similar spirit, our cash rate forecasts for the next decade reflect as inputs the current short rate (in lin e with an 
unchanged YC), long rate (in line with PEH), and economists consensus forecasts (survey evidence). 
15 The choice of a one-year horizon lets me ignore annualization terms in the exposition. The analysis is approximate since I ignore so -called convexity, 
rolldown, and credit risk effects, but it captures the key elements of yield curve behavior. For details , see Ilmanen (1996). This section follows Ilmanen 
(2011) chapter 9. 
Realized bond return (H10) over a year has two 
components: the yield income earned over time, 
and the capital gain or loss due to yield changes 
(approximated by minus bond duration times 
yield change): 
H10 Y10 Duration10 * Y10 
We can subtract the return of the short-term asset 
(Y1) and take expectations to get a variant of the 
Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 10 

bond risk premium (or term premium) in next -
year expected returns: 
BRPH E(excess bond return over the one -year 
riskless rate) (Y10 Y1) Duration10 * E(Y10) 
If the yield curve is upward sloping, longer bonds 
have an initial yield advantage over the riskless 
shorter bond, which gives them some cushion 
against capital losses caused by rising bond yields. 
Break-even (forward) yields show how much the 
bond yield c an rise next year before this cushion is 
just offset. Longer bonds have a smaller cushion 
because their long duration makes their prices more 
interest rate sensitive. If no yield changes 
materialize, bonds will earn their positive -carry 
cushion measured by curve steepness (ignoring 
rolldown). 
Bond yield 
Here is a brief explanation on how bond yields 
reflect the markets rate expectations and required 
bond risk premia. Break-even (forward) rates are, 
by construction, a sequence of future short rates 
such that an investor rolling over short -term 
securities at those rates would earn exactly the 
same return as the long bond. If investors are risk-
neutral, these break-even rates equal the markets 
expectations and the long yield equals the 
expected average of future short rates. If not, the 
long yield also contains a bond risk premium. This 
observation merely states a consistency 
requirement for expectations: if the market long -
term yield is currently high while future short -
term yields are expected to be low, then long-term 
bond yield includes a positive required bond risk 
premium.16 
10-year yield Expected average 1-year rate over the 
next decade + Bond risk premium. 
or Y10 E(avgY1) + BRPY 
This BRP Y is the average expected return of the 
bond over its life in excess of a sequence of riskless 
1-year investments. The two BRP variants, BRP Y 
and BRP H above, are closely related: BRP Y is an 
average of the bonds expected future BRP H each 
year (a 10 -year bonds BRP H for the coming year, 
9-year bonds BRP H for the following year, etc.). 
Feel free to ignore the distinction between these 
BRPs. 
Curve steepness 
A steep YC reflects either market expectations of 
rising yields or high required bond risk premia or, 
more likely, some combination of the two. The rate 
expectation component can be expressed either in 
terms of expected multi -year changes in the 1 -year 
yield over the next decade or, alternatively, as the 
expected next -year change in the 10 -year yield, 
scaled by its (end-of-horizon) duration. The first YC 
equation below focuses on gradual changes in short 
rates and the yield -based BRP Y while the second 
equation focuses on near -term changes in long 
yields and the return-based BRPH. 
YC Y10 Y1 = [E(avgY1) Y1] + BRPY = E(avgY1) 
+ BRPY 
or YC Duration10 * E(Y10) + BRPH

16 We could further slice nominal rate expectations into inflation and real rate expectations, as we did in Part 8 with its thre e-way yield decomposition: 
Y10 E(avgInf) + E(avgR1) + BRP Y. 
Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 11 

References 
AQR Alternative Thinking Q3 2019, Inversion Anxiety: Yield Curves, Economic Growth, and Asset 
Prices, white paper. 
Bacchetta, P., E. Mertens, and E. van Wincoop, 2009, "Predictability in Financial Markets: What Do 
Survey Expectations Tell Us?" Journal of International Money and Finance, 28(3). 
Bauer, M., and Rudebusch, 2020, Interest Rates Under Falling Stars, American Economic Review 
110(5). 
Best, P., A. Byrne, and A. Ilmanen, 1998, What Really Happened to U.S. Bond Yields, Financial 
Analysts Journal, 54(3). 
Campbell, J., and R. Shiller, 1991, Yield Spreads and Interest Rate Movements: A Birds Eye View, 
Review of Economic Studies, 58. 
Cochrane, J., 2011, Presidential Address: Discount Rates, Journal of Finance, 66(4). 
Crump, R., S. Eusepi, E. Moench, and B. Preston, 2023, Chapter 17: The Term Structure of 
Expectations, in the Handbook of Economic Expectations. 
Fama, E., and R. Bliss, 1987, The Information in Long Maturity Forward Rates, American Economic 
Review, 77. 
Farmer L., E. Nakamura, and J. Steinsson, 2024, Learning about the Long Run, Journal of Political 
Economy, 132(10). 
Gurkaynak, R., B. Sack, and J. Wright, 2007, The U.S. Treasury Yield Curve: 1961 to the Present, 
Journal of Monetary Economics, 54. 
Ilmanen, A. (1996), Market Rate Expectations and Forward Rates, Journal of Fixed Income, 6(2). 
Ilmanen, A., 2011, Expected Returns, John Wiley and Sons. 
Ilmanen, A., 2022, Investing Amid Low Expected Returns, Wiley. 
Kim, D., and J. Wright, 2005, An Arbitrage-free Three-factor Term Structure Model and the Recent 
Behavior of Long-term Yields and Distant-Horizon Forward Rates, FEDS working paper, 2005-33, 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
Koijen, R., T. Moskowitz, L. Pedersen and E. Vrugt, 2018, Carry, Journal of Financial Economics, 
127(2). 
Macaulay, F., 1938, The Movements of Interest Rates, Bond Yields and Stock Prices in the United States since 
1856, National Bureau of Economic Research. 
Piazzesi, M., J. Salomao, and M. Schneider, 2015, Trend and Cycle in Bond Premia, Stanford University 
working paper. 

Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 12 

Disclosures
This document has been provided to you solely for information purposes and does not constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer or 
any advice or recommendation to purchase any securities or other financial instruments and may not be construed as such. The 
factual information set forth herein has been obtained or derived from sources believed by the author and AQR Capital Management, 
LLC (AQR), to be reliable, but it is not necessarily all-inclusive and is not guaranteed as to its accuracy and is not to be regarded as a 
representation or warranty, express or implied, as to the informations accuracy or completeness, nor should the attached information 
serve as the basis of any investment decision. This document is not to be reproduced or redistributed without the written consent of 
AQR. The information set forth herein has been provided to you as secondary information and should not be the primary source for 
any investment or allocation decision. 
Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. 
This document is not intended to, and does not relate specifically to any investment strategy or product that AQR offers. It is being 
provided merely to provide a framework to assist in the implementation of an investors own analysis and an investors own view on 
the topic discussed herein. This presentation is not research and should not be treated as research. This presentation does not 
represent valuation judgments with respect to any financial instrument, issuer, security, or sector that may be described or referenced 
herein and does not represent a formal or official view of AQR. 
The views expressed reflect the current views as of the date hereof, and neither the author nor AQR undertakes to advise you of any 
changes in the views expressed herein. It should not be assumed that the author or AQR will make investment recommendations in the 
future that are consistent with the views expressed herein, or use any or all of the techniques or methods of analysis described herein 
in managing client accounts. AQR and its affiliates may have positions (long or short) or engage in securities transactions that are not 
consistent with the information and views expressed in this article. 
The information contained herein is only as current as of the date indicated and may be superseded by subsequent market events or 
for other reasons. Charts and graphs provided herein are for illustrative purposes only. The information in this presentation has been 
developed internally and/or obtained from sources believed to be reliable; however, neither AQR nor the author guarantees the 
accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of such information. Nothing contained herein constitutes investment, legal, tax, or other advice, 
nor is it to be relied on in making an investment or other decision. 
There can be no assurance that an investment strategy will be successful. Historic market trends are not reliable indicators of actual 
future market behavior or future performance of any particular investment, which may differ materially, and should not be relied upon 
as such. Target allocations contained herein are subject to change. There is no assurance that the target allocations will be achieved, 
and actual allocations may be significantly different from those shown here. This presentation should not be viewed as a current or 
past recommendation or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any securities or to adopt any investment strategy. 
The information in this presentation might contain projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future events, targets, 
forecasts, or expectations regarding the strategies described herein and is only current as of the date indicated. There is no 
assurance that such events or targets will be achieved and might be significantly different from that shown here. The information in 
this presentation, including statements concerning financial market trends, is based on current market conditions, which will fluctuate 
and may be superseded by subsequent market events or for other reasons. Performance of all cited indices is calculated on a total 
return basis with dividends reinvested. 
The investment strategy and themes discussed herein may be unsuitable for investors depending on their specific investment 
objectives and financial situation. Please note that changes in the rate of exchange of a currency might affect the value, price, or 
income of an investment adversely. Neither AQR nor the author assumes any duty to, nor undertakes to update forward-looking 
statements. No representation or warranty, express or implied, is made or given by or on behalf of AQR, the author, or any other 
person as to the accuracy and completeness or fairness of the information contained in this document, and no responsibility or liability 
is accepted for any such information. By accepting this presentation in its entirety, the recipient acknowledges its understanding and 
acceptance of the foregoing statement. Diversification does not eliminate the risk of experiencing investment losses. Gross 
performance results do not reflect the deduction of investment advisory fees and other expenses, which would reduce an investors 
actual return. 
Expected or Target returns or characteristics refer to expectations based on the application of mathematical principles to 
portfolio attributes and/or historical data, and do not represent a guarantee. Changes in the assumptions may have a material impact 
on the information presented. 
Broad-based securities indices are unmanaged and are not subject to fees and expenses typically associated with managed accounts 
or investment funds. Investments cannot be made directly in an index. The S&P 500 Index is the Standard & Poors composite index of 
500 stocks, a widely recognized, unmanaged index of common stock prices. 
There is a risk of substantial loss associated with trading commodities, futures, options, derivatives, and other financial instruments. 
Before trading, investors should carefully consider their financial position and risk tolerance to determine whether the proposed 
trading style is appropriate. Investors should realize that when trading futures, commodities, options, derivatives, and other financial 
instruments, one could lose the full balance of their account. It is also possible to lose more than the initial deposit when trading 
derivatives or using leverage. All funds committed to such a trading strategy should be purely risk capital. 

Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 13 

Regional Disclosures 
Hong Kong: This presentation may not be copied, reproduced, republished, posted, transmitted, disclosed, distributed or disseminated, 
in whole or in part, in any way without the prior written consent of AQR Capital Management (Asia) Limited (together with its affiliates, 
AQR) or as required by applicable law. This presentation and the information contained herein are for educational and informational 
purposes only and do not constitute and should not be construed as an offering of advisory services or as an invitation, inducement or 
offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, related financial instruments or financial products in any jurisdiction. 
Investments described herein will involve significant risk factors which will be set out in the offering documents for such investments 
and are not described in this presentation. The information in this presentation is general only and you should refer to the final private 
information memorandum for complete information. To the extent of any conflict between this presentation and the private 
information memorandum, the private information memorandum shall prevail. The contents of this presentation have not been 
reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. You are advised to exercise caution and if you are in any doubt about any of the 
contents of this presentation, you should obtain independent professional advice. 
AQR Capital Management (Asia) Limited is licensed by the Securities and Futures Commission ("SFC") in the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China ("Hong Kong") pursuant to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap 571) 
(CE no: BHD676). AQR Capital Management (Asia) Limited Unit 2023, 20/F, One IFC, 1 Harbour View Street, Central Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong. Licensed and regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong (CE no: BHD676). 
China: This document does not constitute a public offer of any fund which AQR Capital Management, LLC (AQR) manages, whether 
by sale or subscription, in the People's Republic of China (the "PRC"). Any fund that this document may relate to is not being offered or 
sold directly or indirectly in the PRC to or for the benefit of, legal or natural persons of the PRC. 
Further, no legal or natural persons of the PRC may directly or indirectly purchase any shares/units of any AQR managed fund without 
obtaining all prior PRCs governmental approvals that are required, whether statutorily or otherwise. Persons who come into 
possession of this document are required by the issuer and its representatives to observe these restrictions. 
Singapore: This document does not constitute an offer of any fund which AQR Capital Management, LLC (AQR) manages. Any fund 
that this document may relate to and any fund related prospectus that this document may relate to has not been registered as a 
prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Accordingly, this document and any other document or material in connection 
with the offer or sale, or invitation for subscription or purchase, of shares may not be circulated or distributed, nor may the shares be 
offered or sold, or be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase, whether directly or indirectly, to persons in 
Singapore other than (i) to an institutional investor pursuant to Section 304 of the Securities and Futures Act, Chapter 289 of 
Singapore (the SFA)) or (ii) otherwise pursuant to, and in accordance with the conditions of, any other applicable provision of the SFA. 
Korea: Neither AQR Capital Management (Asia) Limited or AQR Capital Management, LLC (collectively AQR) is making any 
representation with respect to the eligibility of any recipients of this document to acquire any interest in a related AQR fund under the 
laws of Korea, including but without limitation the Foreign Exchange Transaction Act and Regulations thereunder. Any related AQR 
fund has not been registered under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act of Korea, and any related fund may not 
be offered, sold or delivered, or offered or sold to any person for re-offering or resale, directly or indirectly, in Korea or to any resident 
of Korea except pursuant to applicable laws and regulations of Korea. 
Japan: This document does not constitute an offer of any fund which AQR Capital Management, LLC (AQR) manages. Any fund that 
this document may relate to has not been and will not be registered pursuant to Article 4, Paragraph 1 of the Financial Instruments 
and Exchange Law of Japan (Law no. 25 of 1948, as amended) and, accordingly, none of the fund shares nor any interest therein may 
be offered or sold, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to, or for the benefit, of any Japanese person or to others for re-offering or resale, 
directly or indirectly, in Japan or to any Japanese person except under circumstances which will result in compliance with all 
applicable laws, regulations and guidelines promulgated by the relevant Japanese governmental and regulatory authorities and in 
effect at the relevant time. For this purpose, a Japanese person means any person resident in Japan, including any corporation or 
other entity organised under the laws of Japan. 
Australia: AQR Capital Management, LLC, is exempt from the requirement to hold an Australian Financial Services License under the 
Corporations Act 2001, pursuant to ASIC Class Order 03/1100 as continued by ASIC Legislative Instrument 2016/396 (as 
extended by amendment). AQR is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under United States of America laws 
and those laws may differ from Australian laws. 
Canada: This material is being provided to you by AQR Capital Management, LLC, which provides investment advisory and 
management services in reliance on exemptions from adviser registration requirements to Canadian residents who qualify as 
permitted clients under applicable Canadian securities laws. No securities commission or similar authority in Canada has reviewed 
this presentation or has in any way passed upon the merits of any securities referenced in this presentation and any representation to 
the contrary is an offence. 
Information for clients in the Middle East 
AQR Capital Management (Europe) LLP (DIFC Representative Office) is regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority of the 
Dubai International Financial Centre as a Representative Office (firm reference number: F007651). Its principal place of business is 
Gate Village 10, Level 3, Unit 4, DIFC, Dubai, UAE. This marketing communication is distributed on behalf of AQR Capital 
Management, LLC. 

Bond Market Focus: Yield Curves and Mean Reverting Rate Expectations Understanding Return Expectations, Part 9 14 

Information for clients in the United Kingdom 
This product is based overseas and is not subject to UK sustainable investment labelling and disclosure requirements. The information 
set forth herein has been prepared and issued by AQR Capital Management (Europe) LLP, a UK limited liability partnership with its 
office at 15 Bedford Street, Covent Garden, London, WC2E 9HE, which is authorised and regulated by the UK Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). 
Information for clients in the EEA 
AQR in the European Economic Area is AQR Capital Management (Germany) GmbH, a German limited liability company (Gesellschaft 
mit beschrnkter Haftung; GmbH), with registered offices at Maximilianstrasse 13, 80539 Munich, authorized and regulated by the 
German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt fr Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, BaFin), with offices at Marie-
Curie-Str. 24-28, 60439, Frankfurt am Main und Graurheindorfer Str. 108, 53117 Bonn, to provide the services of investment 
advice (Anlageberatung) and investment broking (Anlagevermittlung) pursuant to the German Securities Institutions Act 
(Wertpapierinstitutsgesetz; WpIG). The Complaint Handling Procedure for clients and prospective clients of AQR in the European 
Economic Area can be found here: https://ucits.aqr.com/Legal-and-Regulatory 
This is a marketing communication in the European Economic Area (EEA) and approved as a Financial Promotion in the United 
Kingdom (UK). It is only intended for Professional Clients. 
Request ID: 392383 

www.aqr.com 

AQR Capital Management, LLC One Greenwich Plaza, Greenwich, CT 06830 P +1.203.742.3600 F +1.203.742.3100